"Sometimes, I wonder what it would be like for everything inside me that's denied and unknown to be revealed. But I'll never know. I live my life in hiding. My survival depends on it." ~Dexter Morgan ("Born Free")" Dexter Morgan (commonly referred to as Dex) is the title character and anti-hero/villain protagonist of the Showtime original series DEXTER, the special event series Dexter: New Blood and its sequel Dexter: Resurrection, the prequel series Dexter: Original Sin, and the Dexter Novels. Dexter was an elusive vigilante serial killer in Miami, known as "The Bay Harbor Butcher," who primarily targeted and killed other murderers who had escaped justice. His detailed method of killing allowed him to avoid the justice system by getting rid of any potential evidence. The irony of Dexter's life was that he worked closely and affably with homicide detectives and a forensic specialist. Dexter, himself a blood spatter analyst, collected, processed, and interpreted evidence for the Miami Metro Police Department. He often used his ability to access police databases or tamper with evidence for his personal advantage. Contents 1 Description 2 Appearance 3 Clothes 4 Personality 5 Intellect 6 Early Life 7 Religious Points of View 8 Need to Kill 9 Dark Passenger 10 Code of Harry 11 Modus Operandi 12 Blood Trophies 13 Education 14 Forensics Career 15 Skills And Abilities 15.1 Stamina 15.2 Physical Fitness 15.3 Martial Arts 15.4 Sports 15.5 Strategic Thinking 15.6 Methods of Capture 15.7 Marksmanship 15.8 Close-Combatants 16 Diet 17 Crimes Committed 18 How He Avoids Getting Caught 19 Risks and Mistakes 20 Dexter's Victims 21 Those Who Knew His Secret 22 Dexter's Connection with Killers 22.1 Minor Connections 22.2 Major Connections 23 Important Lovers 24 Debra (Sister) 25 Harrison (Son) 26 Series Overview 26.1 Season One 26.2 Season Two 26.3 Season Three 26.4 Season Four 26.5 Season Five 26.6 Season Six 26.7 Season Seven 26.8 Season Eight 26.9 New Blood 26.10 Original Sin 27 Narration 28 Related Pages 29 Trivia 30 Notes 31 Gallery 32 TV Episodes 33 The Novels 34 Quotes Description When Dexter was three-years-old, he witnessed his mother being murdered by a drug dealer with a chainsaw. At an early age, Dexter started to kill and dismember animals. His adoptive father, Harry, (a homicide detective) realized that Dexter was a potential serial killer. After attempts to curb Dexter's violent behavior failed, Harry concluded that Dexter's need to kill could not be suppressed--only focused. Making the best out of a bad situation, Harry decided to train Dexter as a vigilante, to solely hunt and kill other murderers (arguably making society safer). To avoid arrest, Dexter followed a set of guidelines, the Code of Harry. Dexter generally disposed of his victims by dismembering them, putting the parts into black trash bags, and dropping the bags off his fishing boat into the ocean. Scuba divers discovered the bodies of eighteen of his victims. Due to the location where the bodies were found and because they were cut into pieces, the media labelled the unknown killer "The Bay Harbor Butcher" - a moniker Dexter hated. In Dexter: New Blood, he lived in Iron Lake under the alias Jim Lindsay. Appearance Face and Hair Dexter is a tall, handsome, Caucasian male in his mid-30s with auburn hair, and a few beauty marks. His hair length varies slightly during the series. It is the shortest in Season One and the longest in Seasons Two, Three, and Four. Dexter usually has a "Five-o'clock shadow" beard, although in the title sequence ("Morning Routine") from Episode Two onward, he's shaving his neck - with a drop of blood falling into the washbasin. Depending on what age Dexter is, and what actor is playing him, his eyes change color between brown, hazel, blue, and green. In New Blood, ten years later, Dexter's appearance remains mostly the same. His hair is cut in a shorter style than it had been in the past, and he retains his five-o'clock shadow beard. However, his beard had begun to show signs of his age, as there were flecks of white in it. Build and Fitness Dexter is 5'11" (as per his driver license), approximately 175 pounds, physically fit, and maintains an exercise routine. He periodically runs on a treadmill, uses a stationary bike, jogs in the streets, swims, and works out in a gym. Keeping himself in shape is important for two reasons. He must maintain the facade that he is an everyday guy, and he must be able to overpower his victims. Furthermore, Dexter's death-dealing activities require a lot of dragging, heavy lifting, and occasionally the chasing of someone (e.g. Lumen Pierce, Lance Robinson). Identifying Marks Dexter has four scars. Visible throughout the first season, Dexter has a large scar on his left side, which he received in childhood. Later, in season two, the scar has moved to his right side, leaving his left side unmarked. From being shot by Doakes, Dexter has a scar on his left leg. Jimenez gave Dexter a scar on his upper right arm when he slashed it outside the bowling alley. He also has a scar caused by Lumen near his left shoulder. Clothes Normal Clothes Dexter, both in the novels and in the television show, is partial to the Cuban style of khakis or light-colored linen trousers, and rayon or linen guayabera-style shirts. He also wears polo shirts, t-shirts, jeans, athletic pants, and shorts. For work, he generally wears a collared, button-down shirt and often a lab coat. Boat shoes are his preferred footwear. In New Blood, due to living in the colder Iron Lake, Dexter had switched to wearing jumpers and long sleeved shirts with thermal gear under it to stay warm, as well as jeans and work boots. Hunting Outfit When stalking a target, Dexter wears a military-inspired green (the manufacturer calls it "Army Green") 4-button Henley. He also wears brown cargo pants and boots that resemble WWII paratrooper jump boots. To avoid leaving fingerprints, Dexter uses latex gloves or black leather tactical gloves. Dexter no longer wears his hunting outfit during New Blood, typically wearing his normal clothes instead during this time. Kill Attire Kill Attire Dexter's kill attire consists of coveralls and a dark-colored bib apron, probably made of thick vinyl. He usually wears a plastic face shield when using a power tool. He also wears sleeve guards, shoe covers, disposable gloves, and waterproof boots that match his apron. This suggests that he has his own PPE (Personal Protective Equipment). Often, it appears as if he wears his Hunting Outfit beneath his PPE. At times, he has to improvise. Forensic Apparel When creating crime scenes in his lab or working at bloody murder scenes ("Seeing Red"), Dexter wears disposable clothing. This includes coveralls with a hood, gloves, shoe covers (sometimes, boots), face shields, masks, and goggles. It should be noted that some of these items are the same or similar to his Kill Attire. Personality Behind Dexter's mask "My name is Dexter. Dexter Morgan. I don't know what made me the way I am, but whatever it was left a... hollow place inside. People fake a lot of human interactions, but I feel like I fake them all and I fake them very well. And that's my burden, I guess."' ~Dexter Morgan ("Dexter") One of Dexter's most important traits is his need for control - of himself and others. Despite frequently feeling the urge to kill, Dexter displays an incredible amount of self-control. In order to survive, it is vital that he restrain his dark urges and follow the rules of Code. Also, he is very organized in all areas of his life. He keeps his home clean and neat, writes meticulous lab reports, and carefully plans most of his kills. Dexter admittedly calls himself a "control freak." Another trait of Dexter is his sense of superiority. Because he follows a code, he believes that he has higher moral values than the killers that he kills. He justifies his actions as "taking out the trash." On one occasion, Dexter even admitted to Hector Estrada, his mothers killer, that he had never killed for normal reasons, and he painted his following of the Code and his kills as vigilante justice to his son Harrison when he revealed his reasons for killing and his dark urges. However, during his final conversation with Harrison, Dexter realised that he could no longer consider himself morally superior to other killers as he himself fit the Code now and he was just another killer. Dexter can be charming but he is cunning and a practiced liar and, in most cases, viewers should place more trust in his thoughts than in his words to others. Even Hannah called Dexter a "master manipulator." By the time of New Blood, where he had been living under an alias and having faked his death for almost a decade, Dexter was shown to be even more skilled at manipulating others and acting human. Though he would seem annoyed by small talk and interacting with others in the past, he was shown to be a lot more skilled and at ease doing so. Even during this time, Dexter's facade would slip at times and he would occasionally show the same confusion about others in the past at times. Often, he engages in pre-murder conversations with his victims. With them, he can share the truth about who he is and know that they'll take his secret to their watery graves. As Dexter himself noted, when he had his final conversation with Doakes, he only really got to be himself and open up to those that were on his table. Except for anger, Dexter's emotional responses are usually part of a well-rehearsed act. In Season Two, he tells James Doakes that he only has a "small conscience" and that his feelings can't be played on because he doesn't have any ("There's Something About Harry"). Dexter frequently references his internal feeling of emptiness. In his youth, this lead to attempts to "feel alive." (This occurs more in the show than in the books.) As an adult, he enjoys the rush he feels when stalking, killing, and evading capture. For many years, Dexter lived alone, had no interest in romance, and thought it best to avoid sex. He had learned to be wary of intimacy because usually when a woman gets that close to him, she is scared off. But he knew that he needs a relationship to help blend into society. So, for that reason, he starts to date Rita Bennett (an abused woman). At first, he considers his relationship with Rita to be part of his "disguise." Later, it appears that he cares more for Rita than he admits. Dexter eventually marries Rita (after she becomes pregnant with his son, Harrison) (In the novels, Dexter has a biological daughter, Lily, instead of a son.) In his narration, Dexter often refers to "humans" as if he is not one of them. But there are chinks in Dexter's emotional armor. He acknowledges loyalty to his family, particularly to his dead, adoptive father. Regarding him, Dexter stated, "If I were capable of love, how I would have loved Harry." After Harry's death, Dexter's only family (until he marries Rita) is his adoptive sister, Debra Morgan. In one episode, Dexter comically repeats in his head "I will not kill my sister" (as she regularly leaves his apartment a mess while living with him). However, Dexter didn't allow his own brother, Brian, to harm Debra, as Dexter was "fond of her." After Rita's murder, Dexter realised how much he loved her and was devastated, emotionally shutting down once more for a short while. However, Rita's death also caused a change in Dexter, in many ways for the worst. Though he still followed the Code, he began to drift from it, killing non-killers more frequently, with no signs of remorse. His emotional depth had also regressed because of this, as he once again began to act as he had before he'd married Rita and had Harrison. His deviations from the Code reached the point where he was willing to murder innocent people as long as he remained free, having been willing to kill LaGuerta to keep himself from being caught, as well as appearing ready to attack and kill Angela Bishop (his ex-girlfriend) to stop himself from being arrested. This finally would culminate in him murdering Logan, a friend of his and Angela's sergeant, in an effort to escape his jail cell: unlike when he killed Farrow and felt guilty when he discovered that he was innocent, Dexter showed absolutely no sign of remorse or guilt for killing Logan, even attempting to justify it to Harrison. Although Dexter ruthlessly and ritualistically kills murderers with no remorse, he often wishes that he could just lead a normal life. His attempts to do this prove fruitless in the end. Part of the reason Dexter has been unable to lead a normal life is due in part to the fact he actually enjoys killing, even though he has claimed he only likes the way it makes him feel. Intellect "Am I evil? Am I good? I'm done asking those questions. I don't have the answers. Does anyone?" ~Dexter ("The British Invasion") Dexter is portrayed as highly intelligent, introspective, pragmatic, calculating, relentless, generally fearless, and a "master of compartmentalization." He enjoys challenges, has a dry sense of humor, and is aware of his human defects. Overall, Dexter is a anti-villain protagonist as opposed to traditionally "good" ones. While he does have an anti-heroic attitude on killing only criminals who are likely to kill again, it's not out of the goodness of his heart nor is it to make the world a better place. Early Life Main article: Dexter Morgan/Early Life Young Dexter sits in his mother's blood Dexter was born Dexter Moser on February 1, 1971 (three years after Brian Moser) to parents Laura Moser and Joe Driscoll. On October 2, 1973 (reported in an October 3, 1973 news article), Laura, her two sons, as well as three drug users were herded into a shipping container. The boys watched as their mother and the others were brutally murdered by chainsaw. Dexter and Brian sat in their blood for two days before they were rescued, and the traumatic event forever changed both of them. While Brian was institutionalized, Dexter was taken in by the Morgan family and legally adopted. His adoptive family members are Debra (sister), Doris (mother) and Harry (the homicide detective who found him sitting in blood). Dexter grew up unaware of Brian's existence. Dexter's murderous urges took shape well before adolescence and it was his adoptive sister, Debra, who saw the signs first, but she didn't realize what it meant. Dexter had taken apart each of her dolls -- a harbinger of human dismemberment. (per Early Cuts) One day, while on the family boat, Harry asked Dexter if he's "different." He told Dexter that he'd found the grave of the neighbor's missing dog, Buddy, along with a lot of other bones. Harry asked Dexter if he ever wanted to kill something bigger than a dog, like a person. Dexter admitted that he had, but no one in particular. When asked, "Why didn't you?," Dexter replied that he thought his father and mother "wouldn't like it." ("Dexter") When Dexter was 19-years-old, Harry fell ill of coronary heart disease and was confined to a hospital. Harry soon realized that Nurse Mary was purposefully overdosing people. On the verge of death from Mary's actions, Harry gave Dexter his "permission" to kill her. This was Dexter's first human kill ("Popping Cherry"). A year later, Harry walked in on Dexter dismembering Juan Ryness and he vomited. Three days later, Harry committed suicide, though Dexter didn't know he killed himself until later. In S7E2, Dexter tells Debra that he has been killing since age 20. Religious Points of View Travis Marshall's kill table "If I believed in God, if I believed in Sin, this is the place where I would be sucked straight to Hell. If I believed in Hell..." ~Dexter ("Waiting to Exhale") Dexter doesn't understand religion. He personally never believed in a higher power, apart from the guidance from his father, Harry Morgan. Throughout the seasons, he hinted at being atheist, although he had no problem with those who followed religion. In Season Six, he clarified that his belief was mainly in science. The season's focus on religion introduced him to various characters, from Brother Sam to Travis Marshall. After pressure from Angel and Debra, he decided to pass religious belief on to Harrison (his son). Dexter's faith was tested on multiple occasions, yet he never called out to a spiritual deity for assistance. He found his own way out of bad situations. The exception was when he was faced with a predicament that he couldn't fix alone--Harrison in surgery for a ruptured appendix. Twice during this situation, Dexter prayed to God. Deeply worried, he promised that he'd do anything if Harrison would be okay. He wasn't sure if he really believed in a higher being but, for the moment, he just wanted his son to survive. After news of his son's successful recovery, he said "Thank God," which Brother Sam heard. Season Six events brought spirituality into Dexter's life. Deciding that his son would benefit from a structured lifestyle, he enrolled Harrison in Catholic school. As Dexter sought to understand religious values, he encountered one who knew little (Joe Walker); one who was an obsessed End Times expert (Professor James Gellar); one, a killer, who was trapped between his beliefs and his own personality (Travis Marshall); and one who "found" God but was a normal, functional man (Brother Sam). In the end, Dexter didn't believe in a high power. After Brother Sam's death, he claimed that religion was useless for his "dark passenger." In Season 8, he stated, "I don't believe in miracles." Need to Kill "Tonight's the night. And it's going to happen again, and again. It has to happen. Nice night." ~Dexter ("Dexter") Dexter's need to kill stems from an early life incident. At age three, he witnessed his mother's brutal murder by chainsaw inside a cargo container. He was then left sitting in blood for two days. The traumatic incident caused something inside of Dexter to "change" and he was reborn as a killer. Dexter's urge to kill is strong and needs to be satisfied nearly monthly. He continually hunts for prey to place on his table. Then he takes his time to thoroughly enjoy his ritual. If he doesn't kill for a duration of time, he becomes unstable, with his personality representing withdrawal syndrome. Despite the 'withdrawal syndrome' Dexter has displayed when not able to kill for a duration of time, he was able to successfully give up killing for almost a decade by the start of New Blood, through the use of a structured lifestyle. Even before 'falling off the wagon' and killing again, he displayed a great amount of restraint, successfully ignoring his reawakened urge at first. It was only when pushed to his limit that he snapped and impulsively killed again. But even after this, his need wasn't as prevalent as it once was. Dark Passenger Main article: Dark Passenger Dexter's darkness "I just know there's something dark in me. I hide it. I certainly don't talk about it. But it's there. Always. This 'Dark Passenger.' And when he's driving, I feel...alive. Half sick with the thrill of complete wrongness. I don't fight him. I don't want to." ~Dexter An important aspect of Dexter is his Dark Passenger, a psychological manifestation of his inner-thinking that represents his urge to kill. It is a level of 'darkness' that he can only keep at bay with a high degree of control. For many years, Dexter believes that his ‘Dark Passenger’ is an actual 'entity.' Eventually, he views the ‘Dark Passenger’ as a scapegoat that he blames for his actions. At times, Dexter has thought that other murderers also have ‘Dark Passengers'. Even after viewing the 'Dark Passenger' as a scapegoat, he continued to claim that it was the reason for his kills, even admitting this to his son when he revealed their shared dark urges. Code of Harry Main article: Code of Harry Dexter decides to violate the code "Without the ‘Code of Harry,’ I'm sure I would’ve committed a senseless murder in my youth just to watch the blood flow." ~Dexter "My code requires a higher standard of proof than your city’s laws, at zero cost to the taxpayer. If you ask me, I'm a bargain." ~Dexter Dexter's adoptive father, Harry Morgan (with the guidance of Evelyn Vogel) trained Dexter to control his homicidal urges and to channel them away from innocent people. The Code of Harry allowed Dexter to kill other killers and helped him to avoid arrest. Don't get caught! Never kill an innocent. Be certain that the target is a killer. Victims must be killers who have evaded the justice system. Killing must serve a purpose, otherwise it's just plain murder. Blend in socially. Maintain appearances. Fake emotions and normality. Control urges to kill and channel them. Be prepared. Leave no traces or evidence. Never make a scene. Stay calm and collected. Don't make things personal because it clouds judgment. Modus Operandi Main article: Dexter's modus operandi Dexter performs his Kill Ritual "I prefer a stalk-and-ambush approach. My instincts are impeccable, but I have to be sure of my prey." ~Dexter ("Popping Cherry") Dexter's preferred modus operandi, although he improvises as needed: Select a victim (suspected murderer). Stalk (learn routine, gather evidence). Confirm that the target meets the Code. Prepare a Kill Room. Capture the target. Collect a blood trophy. Conduct his Kill Ritual. Dismember the body. Leave no evidence. Dispose of remains from his boat. Blood Trophies Main article: Blood Slide Boxes. Dexter collects a blood slide trophy "Some gangs earn teardrops of blood by killing. I understand, we all need our keepsakes. One man's tattoos are another man's blood slides." ~Dexter Dexter usually collects a blood slide as a trophy during a planned kill. He slices a victim’s cheek with a surgical scalpel and places a drop of blood between two microscope slides. He keeps his blood slides inside a specialized Blood Slide Box. Education Dexter was in the top of his class in medical school and, subsequently, earned a degree in forensic science. His formal education included courses in biology, anatomy, chemistry, and mathematics. Additionally, he demonstrates knowledge on various topics, including history, anthropology, psychology, botany, philosophy, architecture, sociology, economics, religious lore, art, literature, law, and criminology. Dexter possesses a large English vocabulary and speaks some Spanish, but he never exhibits fluency in other languages. Forensics Career Quotes from court in "Crocodile" Lawyer: "Please state your name and occupation."Dexter: "My name is Dexter Morgan and I'm a forensics specialist in blood-spatter analysis for the Miami Metro Police Department."Lawyer: "And how long have you been doing blood-spatter analysis, Mr. Morgan?"Dexter: "Almost twelve years."Lawyer: "You've been involved in quite a few cases then?"Dexter: "Two thousand, one hundred and three."Lawyer: (Chuckle) "Give or take..."Dexter: "No. Two thousand, one hundred and three."Lawyer: "Then it's safe to say that blood is your life?"Dexter: "Safe to say." Dexter in the forensics lab Prior to Season One, Dexter Morgan spent almost twelve years employed as the only known blood-spatter analyst in the Miami Metro Homicide Dept. He's a well-respected and model co-worker (reliable, efficient, friendly). The person that he works the closest with, Vince Masuka, covers the remainder of forensics, although Dexter does often help him with non-blood related forensics (fingerprints, fiber, hair, and bullets). Dexter also serves as an expert witness in court proceedings and is certified to photograph crime scenes. Dexter has a precise knowledge of his work field and, thanks to his interest in blood, he proficiently solves criminal cases. To Dexter, "The blood doesn't lie." Both Dexter's personal and professional lives revolve around blood. At times, suspects involved in cases fly into his radar and match the Code. Then he will tamper with evidence to ensure that they go free so that he can claim their lives. Also, he tampers with evidence for other reasons. In one such instance, he altered evidence to ensure that Detective Joey Quinn didn't take the fall for Stan Liddy's death. Because of his many years in his line of work and the tragedy of his wife's murder, Dexter became well known locally. Even Jordan Chase, a motivational speaker, had heard of and (unfortunately) became interested in him. When Dexter attended his high school reunion, most of his classmates admired his "cool job." The exception was sports-store-owner, Joe Walker, who became a bit jealous, due to the attention that Dexter received and began to enjoy. Sergeant Doakes found it curious that Dexter would "settle" for blood spatter work, a job he considered beneath Dexter's abilities. He also questioned why a "lab geek" had studied advanced jujitsu in college. Detective Mike Anderson judged Dexter to be an exceptionally good deductive analyst and wondered how a "pro" like him could stand working with "Miami Homicide chuckleheads." Though he had given up forensics after faking his death, and having not performed any forensics in almost a decade, Dexter continued to show his forensics knowledge in New Blood. He was able to deduce from the blood patterns that Harrison had staged his attack on his friend. He was also able to deduce, from a mummified corpse, that she had bitten her attacker, as well as detailing her manner of death. Skills And Abilities Dexter's different personas "A wolf would chew off its own paw; its survival instinct is that fierce. So is mine." ~Dexter ("Do You Take Dexter Morgan?") Dexter is a force to be reckoned with. To supplement his forensic expertise, Dexter mastered a wide array of skills. He's portrayed as a master manipulator, practiced liar, lock picker, burglar, marksman, hunter and tracker, hand-to-hand combatant, actor, computer hacker, and impersonator. These abilities proved necessary to maintain his double life, carry out his nightly activities, and keep one step ahead of the very Department in which he worked. His high level of physical fitness was a requirement for his survival and of utmost benefit in following the first rule of the Code - "Don't get caught." Stamina Dexter's cardio was a major factor in his personal upkeep. In the event that he had to chase down a target, he needed to keep up without tiring. If in a fight, he had to endure hits and return them with ease. And having enough energy while chasing, subduing, transferring, and disposing of victims was a necessity. Regarding his cardio, he said, "The voices in my head get quieter until it's just me, my breath, and my feet on the sand." Dexter has been swimming, jogging, running on a treadmill, using an exercise bike, and rowing on a gym's machine. Considering his muscle size and abdominal shape, it was apparent that he incorporated crunches, weight lifting, and push-ups into his exercise regimen. During New Blood, Dexter's exercise routine seemed to primarily consist of runs through the wood while hunting the White Deer. Physical Fitness His physical strength is also quite impressive; only a few of the series' antagonists, including Little Chino and Ray Speltzer, have been able to overpower him. Dexter himself has overpowered antagonists (in no particular order) Arthur Mitchell, Brian Moser, Louis Greene, George King, Jonah Mitchell, Jordan Chase, Oscar Prado, Miguel Prado, James Doakes (twice), Joey Quinn, and more. Additionally, he can lift and carry adult men with ease, showing little sign of strain. He has proven capable of lifting a full-grown man (Louis Greene) off the floor by the neck, with two hands. A decade later, Dexter's physical strength was still quite impressive, as he was able to snap Logan's neck with little difficult. Martial Arts In his college years, Dexter studied advanced Jujitsu techniques, other fighting and grappling techniques to aid in learning how to fight opponents. Through years of experience (and likely a few close calls), he became a master at hand-to-hand combat CQC (close-quarters-combat) and, on more than one occasion, he was able to out-maneuver and defeat other experienced combatants. For the most part, his training in Jujitsu allowed him to quickly subdue targets with just a few simple movements, which mostly culminated in a rear naked choke hold. (This technique cuts off blood flow to the brain via the carotid arteries and causes temporary unconsciousness in just a few seconds). While not often, Dexter snapped necks, particularly if the situation called for a quick execution. If his opponents had weapons, he was able to disarm them before they caused any real damage. Sports Dexter has no real interest in watching or engaging in team games or any sport. However, in order to appear normal, Dexter went bowling in Season Two and New Blood, golfing in Season Three and Season Six, and played flag football in Season Six noting he learned how to play football from his dad. Dexter's apartment building has a private pool and he uses it to go swimming in Season Three and Season Five. Dexter coached his son Harrison's soccer team to a championship in Season Eight. Strategic Thinking While capable of taking on opponents, Dexter never rushed a battle to leave room for his own mistakes - unless he really needed to do so out of desperation. For instance, a handcuffed Dexter did decide to start fighting Doakes right away when the latter held him at gunpoint. Another example would be the time that a hit man held him at gunpoint and Dexter quickly cut his throat. Dexter's style often relied on counter-offense. He would allow his opponents to strike first in order to expose a weak or blind spot and then immediately take advantage of them (as with Joe Walker or Travis Marshall). In most instances, he adopted stealth and sneak attacks, as opposed to direct confrontation. He often stalked his victims from the shadows and disposed of them with minimal effort due to quiet steps and quick movements. He took advantage of any opportunity that presented itself, including the use of the surrounding environment. The following situations are examples of when Dexter used strategic thinking: Zoey Kruger. Usually, Dexter never allowed a fight to last longer than thirty seconds or so. This was to ensure that his victim had little to no chance of turning the tide of battle in their favor. Dexter preferred to use his animal tranquilizer (also known as M99) to disable his opponent so that he could strap them onto his table. However, when he didn't have his M99 or if he was challenged while carrying it, he had to rely on his strategic thinking. For instance, when Zoey Kruger attacked him, it resulted in him putting the M99 in his mouth and fighting Zoey until he had her in a position where he could inject the M99. Jordan Chase. An excellent example of Dexter's strategic thinking would be when Jordan Chase was able to hold both him and Lumen captive at his camp. Dexter was able to stab Jordan in the right foot with the 'missing knife' that he held in his pocket. This is a definite indication that Dexter was constantly preparing himself for any situation that could have the potential to escalate. It can safely be presumed that Dexter knew that Jordan had the potential to be cocky and, thus, Jordan would ignore the possibility that he could get harmed. Oliver Saxon. Another good example of Dexter's intelligence would be when he confronted Oliver Saxon in a jail cell. Dexter and Oliver both sat across from each other at a table, upon which Dexter placed a pen. Oliver quickly used the pen to pierce Dexter's shoulder, but Dexter pulled it out and killed Oliver by stabbing him in the throat with it. Miami Metro Police then replayed security footage of the incident, but they let Dexter off as the murder appeared to be in self-defense with no forethought from Dexter. This is an example of Dexter being able to look innocent to the people around him, but at the cost of an injury to his arm. James Doakes. Dexter was also very good at manipulating situations and setting people up. When Doakes started to go after him, Dexter's initial response was to make Doakes look inept. At a crime scene, Dexter first gave Doakes incorrect information regarding the homicide of a young woman, which caused Doakes to arrest a completely innocent man. Dexter then put a lab report on Doakes' desk, tellingLaGuerta that he had delivered it to him the previous day (which he did not), making it look as though Doakes was deliberately interrogating an innocent person. This caused LaGuerta to harshly question Doakes' judgement. Dexter then headbutted Doakes in the privacy of his lab and quickly walked out to the main office area in front of his co-workers. Enraged, Doakes chased after him and attacked him publicly, while Dexter feigned helplessness and fear, causing LaGuerta to suspend Doakes on the spot. Louis Greene. Years later, when Louis started to harass Dexter by sending him Brian's Prosthetic Hand and cancelling his credit cards, Dexter arranged for Louis to get fired as well as causing his girlfriend to break up with him, all while Dexter appeared to be completely innocent. Maria LaGuerta. Dexter also successfully setup LaGuerta by making it appear as though she tried to frame him for the murder of Hector Estrada. This put her job in jeopardy. Methods of Capture See: M99 Tranquilizer article:Etorphine M99 Tranquilizer In the TV series, Dexter mostly uses sleeper holds or M99 tranquilizer to capture his victims. In the novels, Dexter uses 50-pound-test-nylon-fishing line to strangle his victims into unconsciousness with a tactic known as garroting. He either casually walks up to his victims and quickly throttles them, or he hides in their cars and waits for them to sit down in the front seat, at which point he strikes. He then orders them to drive to the site where he plans to kill them. Dexter also does this in the TV series. Marksmanship Dexter's best display of marksmanship Dexter Morgan, who is rarely seen handling guns, uses a two-tone Heckler & Koch USP ("Left Turn Ahead") taken from the corpse of cocaine dealer Esteban Famosa to shoot and kill Esteban's brother, Teo, in the only shooting death caused by Dexter. In Dexter's early days, he underwent extensive gun-training from his father, Harry. In flashbacks, Dexter can be seen at a gun range making accurate shots with various weapons. In addition, he hunted with a rifle during his teen years and was capable of hitting a deer or another animal quite easily. Dexter with Esteban's gun Although Dexter prefers not to use firearms in his adult years, he is still a proficient marksman that can fire a handgun with precision. One of his witnessed uses of a handgun in his adult life is the time that Esteban and Teo Famosa hold Sergeant James Doakes as a hostage at the cabin. After Dexter snaps Esteban's neck, he works with Doakes and, using Esteban's gun, he fires a shot that pierces Teo's heart. Another notable instance of Dexter's marksmanship is during his road trip to Nebraska. Using his left hand, Dexter fires a bullet between the eyes of a cartoon figure on a billboard, while he drives at about 100 miles per hour. Close-Combatants Dexter tangles with James Doakes Following his difficult struggle with Nurse Mary, Dexter knew that if he couldn't easily subdue someone like her, he would find it extremely difficult to take on stronger foes. To succeed as a serial killer and to avoid putting his own life on the line, Dexter became skilled in jujitsu (which he studied in college) and other fighting and grappling techniques. The following is a list of situations in which Dexter was forced to subdue a victim or opponent outside of his regular stealthy approach: Emmett Meridian. Dexter used a sleeper hold on Meridian as he attempted to walk away, causing Meridian to lose consciousness in a matter of seconds. ("Shrink Wrap") Sergeant James Doakes (ex-United States Army Special Forces soldier). The first real sign of Dexter's Jujitsu training was in a small confrontation with Doakes at the Shipping Yard, where Dexter is tracking a theory on where Rudy Cooper could have taken his sister, Debra. When Dexter sarcastically lied to Doakes about why he was in the shipping yard, Doakes punched him squarely in the gut and readied himself to throw another right-hand punch, only to have Dexter dodge out of the way and grab Doakes' wrist. Dexter aligned himself so that Doakes' right arm was outstretched across his own chest, and his free hand was positioned in a choke-hold around Doakes' neck. Doakes tried to use his left hand to pull off Dexter's grip, but was not successful. The two went flying back against the shipping container as Dexter began to tighten his hold, rendering Doakes immobile. A nearby worker forced the two to break up the fight. This was the first clear sign that Dexter was capable of handling others by using his quick reflexes and agility to turn an offense into a weakness. It demonstrated Dexter's ability to manipulate the bodies of others so that they are put in a compromising position ("Born Free"). Later, Doakes held Dexter at gunpoint on a pier and forced him to put on handcuffs. The two ended up falling into the water and fighting in it waist-deep. Doakes managed to fire a bullet from his gun that grazed Dexter's thigh but Dexter, even with a gunshot wound to his leg, managed to overpower and subdue Doakes by placing him in a choke-hold ("Resistance Is Futile"). Brian Moser. Dexter's older brother, attempted to separate his younger sibling from his bonds to his adoptive family by killing Debra Morgan. He gave a knife to Dexter and tried to make him do it willingly but, when Dexter hesitated, Brian took the blade back and thrust it down in Debra's direction. Dexter quickly grabbed Brian's wrist and stopped his arm in motion. Using his momentum, Dexter pushed Brian back and slammed Brian's hand against the wall to force the knife out of his grip. However, Brian took the upper hand by elbow-locking his brother's head and kneeing him in the face. Brian then threw Dexter to the floor and escaped. Dexter lost his advantage in this struggle (a rare occasion for Dexter) likely due to having been tranquilized earlier and feeling emotionally torn. ("Born Free") Oscar Prado. Oscar attacked Dexter with a knife for attempting to intervene when he was attacking Freebo with it. Dexter proved to be superior in combat when he shoved Oscar's own knife into his heart in self-defense. ("Our Father") George King. He knocked out and kidnapped Dexter, planning to torture him. Dexter managed to escape by breaking his own hand in order to free himself from the rope that restrained him. Despite his broken hand, Dexter overpowered King when the latter attacked him and snapped his neck. ("Do You Take Dexter Morgan?") Zoey Kruger. She was a police officer who had murdered her family. Kruger found out that Dexter was looking into her case and went to his house with the intention of killing him. Dexter attempted to sneak up on her from behind, but she saw his reflection and tried to defend herself. She put up a fight but was no match for Dexter and he was able to inject her with M99.("Dex Takes a Holiday") Lance Robinson. He woke up after being tranquilized and placed in the trunk of Dexter's car. He began to run away, forcing Dexter to run after him. Dexter eventually caught up with him and suffocated him with plastic wrap. ("Everything Is Illumenated") Stan Liddy. He attacked Dexter with a knife, but Dexter proved to be superior in combat as he managed to get on top of Liddy and thrust the knife into his heart. ("Hop a Freighter") Joe Walker. Walker was a professional athlete and, consequently, had impressive reflexes. He defended himself the second that Dexter attacked him, even though Dexter had been successful in sneaking up on him. When Joe took a swing at him, Dexter caught his fist and choked him until he was unconscious.("Those Kinds of Things") Alberto. He proved to be no match for Dexter when the latter used a harpoon to impale him, throwing him into the ocean. ("This is the Way the World Ends") Andrew Briggs. He got into a fight with Dexter and tried to grab hold of a knife that was laying on a desk, but Dexter was quicker and grabbed it first. Dexter then quickly killed his opponent with it. ("A Beautiful Day") The following are less impressive displays of his fighting abilities, though they still show him overpowering a character in one way or another. Jeremy Downs. When he first intended to kill Jeremy, Dexter was able to sneak up on him relatively quickly and force him against a wall with his strength. He then held Jeremy by the throat, claiming that he could snap his neck with ease. ("Let's Give the Boy a Hand") Paul Bennett. Due to Paul's constant meddling in his and Rita's lives, Dexter grew increasingly annoyed. When Paul persisted in irritating Dexter, it resulted in Paul being knocked out by a frying pan. ("Seeing Red") Oliver Saxon. He took Dexter's pen and stabbed him in the shoulder with it. Dexter then pulled the pen out and quickly killed Saxon with it. While Dexter is usually more physically capable than his opponents, there are a few instances where he has been at ends with capturing his victim: Little Chino - A mountain of a man, Little Chino was taller and more muscular than anyone else in the series. He proved to be stronger than what Dexter had anticipated and broke free from his shrink wrap, while supposedly still tranquilized. If Little Chino had stayed to fight, he could have possibly killed Dexter (although Dexter would likely have used one of his many knives). ("It's Alive") Ray Speltzer - Ray, a bodybuilder on steroids with a psychotic attitude, escaped from Dexter's arm lock and used a nearby object to knock Dexter out. Even more unusual, Ray brought Dexter to his own version of a kill room (built like a maze where Ray becomes a Minotaur). Dexter, for once, had to escape for his life. He later repaid Ray with an ambush in a cemetery. ("Run") Diet In general, Dexter consumes food that will contribute to his energy and stamina. At times, however, he is not adverse to eating sweets or "junk food." Following are food items that he has eaten or planned to eat: Donuts (often purchased at Sadie's Donuts), T-Bone Steaks, Porterhouse Steaks, Pot Roast, Beer, Coffee, Eggs, Bacon, Blood Oranges, Bananas, Pulled Pork Sandwiches, Stone Crabs, Tacos, Corn on the Cob, Salad, Turkey, Yams. Pizza, Hamburgers, Spaghetti, Ice Cream Cones, Chips, and Cake In the original opening credits, Dexter prepares his breakfast which consists of sunny-side-up eggs with hot sauce, fried ham steak, whole bean coffee, and orange juice (made from blood oranges). In Dexter: New Blood, Dexter frequently ate tuna sandwiches for lunch. Crimes Committed "If the legal system worked as well as you say it does, I wouldn’t be so busy." ~Dexter to Doakes Despite how Stan Liddy describes Dexter as "squeaky clean on paper," he has committed many crimes. All of them have something to do with his status as a serial killer: Animal Cruelty - killed neighbors' pets in his youth First Degree Murder - Dexter has taken the lives of at least 149 people (Dexter's Kill List) Second Degree Murder - Mercy killings, impulsive kills Lying in Wait (to commit murder) Attempted Murder Concealment of a Human Corpse Concealment of the Death of Another Person Desecration/Abuse of a Corpse -Dismemberment of victims; defiling a corpse Unlawful Disposal of Human Bodies - Typically buried at sea, but also dumped in the Everglades or incinerated Breaking and Entering - While vetting or capturing a target Trespassing - While stalking a target Voluntary Violence Coercion - Barry Kurt Obstruction of Justice - Derailing police investigations; planted or destroyed evidence Child Endangerment - Sending his son off with a convicted felon Blackmail and Extortion Stalking - Online and physically Forgery - To obtain various licenses, documents, fake passports, etc. Computer Fraud - Hacking into others' computers; unlawful access to a computer network Unlawful Use of Police Databases or Files - Regularly to vet a target Arson - Burned a storage unit and a church Destruction of Private Property - Things that annoyed him, were problematic, or interfered with his kill ritual Abduction/Kidnapping - To capture victims Unlawful Imprisonment or Detainment - Most were intended victims, with a few exceptions (e.g. Lumen Pierce) Intimidation - Displayed threatening behavior with victims or problematic people (e.g., Mike Donovan, Louis Greene, Andrew Brightman). Criminal Mischief - Slashing tires, etc. Planting a Recording Device / Eavesdropping False Report of a Crime - ("Those Kinds of Things") Assault and Aggravated Battery - Often committed on his targets Frame-ups - Adjusted crime scenes so the wrong person was blamed; planted evidence Unlawful Use of Tranquilizers - To sedate his targets or temporarily knock someone out Unlawful Injection of a Narcotic Drug Unlawful Possession of Controlled Substances / Use of Illegal Drugs - To set someone up (e.g., Paul Bennett) Interference with Police Investigations - To cover-up his own crimes or to clear someone else Impersonation / Identity Fraud - Used aliases, often illegally; possessed fake IDs and passports; impersonating a police officer Theft - At times, stole the cash or possessions of targets and victims Grand Theft Auto - Stole a car to pursue Jordan Chase Burglary of a Conveyance / Carjacking Reckless Endangerment / Speeding Moving & Stationary Traffic Violations / Hit and Run Accidents - While pursuing targets or people of interest. Falsely Pulling Fire or Security Alarms - To distract or remove people from an area. Torture Mutilation Lying To Law Enforcement Aiding and Abetting a Fugitive - Hannah McKay Jailbreak - "Sins of the Father" How He Avoids Getting Caught Forensic Expertise: Dexter uses his knowledge of forensic science to cover his tracks and avoid leaving evidence behind at his crime scenes. This allows him to stay one step ahead of the police. Disposing of Evidence: Dexter is meticulous about disposing of evidence, such as the bodies of his victims, in a way that minimizes the chances of detection. He often dismembers the bodies and disposes of them in the ocean, making them difficult to find. Maintaining a Facade: Dexter maintains a carefully crafted facade of normalcy in his personal and professional life to avoid suspicion. He presents himself as a dedicated and competent colleague at work and a caring boyfriend and father in his personal life. Manipulation and Deception: Dexter is skilled at manipulating those around him and using deception to deflect suspicion. He often uses his charm and intelligence to manipulate others into seeing him as a trustworthy and upstanding individual. Luck and Plot Armor: Like many fictional characters, Dexter benefits from a certain amount of luck and plot armor that allows him to narrowly escape detection in various situations. Risks and Mistakes Dexter answers phone during a kill In season one, Dexter attacks Paul on impulse with Rita and a social worker in the other room. He has to be quick to cover things up and does not realize one of Paul's shoes has been left behind, which Paul tells Rita about and she finds. Dexter has answered phone calls at or near his kill sites (which could be used to pinpoint his location). Because of this, Maria LaGuerta attempted to obtain a search warrant for the GPS logs of Dexter's phone the night he killed Travis Marshall at the church. Had LaGuerta had time to process the warrant before she was killed, she would have found evidence that placed Dexter at the church the night Marshall was killed. He researched his potential victims on his work computer, both at work and home, and appeared to take few counter-measures against leaving electronic evidence. In Season Two, he borrowed a tranquilizer gun from the Miami Metro Police Department’s armory (under the pretense that he was having an alligator problem) and lost it to Little Chino's lackeys. In Season Two, Dexter was recorded on a security camera at his marina cleaning his boat. He was able to delete the footage in the nick of time before it was viewed by Frank Lundy. In Season Two, he did not delete his travel history from his GPS tracking device in Rita's minivan after driving it, which resulted in Lila West tracking his trip to the cabin and learning that he's The Bay Harbor Butcher. In Season Five, Dan Mendell, a member of the Barrel Girl Gang (men who raped and tortured Lumen Pierce), called another member of the group, Cole Harmon, whose identity was unknown to Dexter at the time. After killing Mendell, Dexter did not check the phone for the number Mendell called (or for other possible Barrel Gang members’ numbers). This would have aided him in identifying Harmon. In Season Six, after Debra interrupted Dexter while killing Travis Marshall at the church, Dexter was forced to forgo his usual kill process and burn the church to the ground with Debra in order to prevent her from figuring out that he's the Bay Harbor Butcher. As a result, Dexter didn't have time to clean up the crime scene like he normally does and because of this he left behind a blood slide which was discovered by Maria LaGuerta and jumpstarted her investigation into the Bay Harbor Butcher still being alive. In Season Eight, Dexter was viewed on A.J. Yates security cameras while breaking into his house. Dexter never wears a mask or covers his face in the kill room, so if his victim escapes or is spared, they know what Dexter looks like, potentially allowing them to track him down later. In New Blood, Dexter burns the body of Matt Caldwell in a local incinerator and leaves behind titanium screws from his knee surgery which leads to Matt's father Kurt Caldwell eventually identifying him as Matt's murderer. Dexter was also captured on thermal imaging striking Matt, though his identity was safe due to the fact there was no way to determine he was the one who had struck him. In New Blood, Dexter targets Jasper Hodge because the drugs that Jasper manufactured had resulted in Harrison almost overdosing and dying. Dexter targeted him despite the fact the police were going to raid Jasper's home. While he did kill Jasper, he was forced to kill him through a forced overdose instead of stabbing him in the chest due to the fact Logan showed up sooner than Dexter had anticipated. This could have resulted in Dexter being caught, due to the fact that he targeted Jasper for vengeful reasons. Dexter's Victims Main article: Dexter's Kill ListCategory page; Killed by Dexter Those Who Knew His Secret Main article: Those Who Knew Dexter's Secret Dexter's Connection with Killers Despite his best efforts in adhering to the Code of Harry, Dexter has a need to connect on some level with each of his victims - a trait that's not mutually exclusive to him but Dexter views each of them as other "travelers", feeling something of a kinship with them. He's not above referring to them as "friends"...opening up to them as one would with a friend. In his Kill Room, Dexter can be the most honest he's ever been with anyone - with his captives serving as either a cautionary tale for how far he could stray or remind him why he does what he does (either as a Serial Killer or a "Dark Defender", as he can justify his feelings during a kill in either direction). His victims in turn almost always open up about their crimes - finally free to expose what they really are. Some beg, others revel in the type of monster they are...but almost all realize that this is the end of the road for them - one final confession to a colleague on their shared path. During the events of an episode, Dexter may be dealing with a situation in his personal life - something to do with his family or friends or even a lover. A "victim of the week" (or killer of the week) may mirror these situations in some ways and conversing with (or even after killing) these killers can have a profound effect on Dexter's personal life. Take for example Dr. Emmett Meridian, Dexter is put on his trail after discovering his third victim that he manipulated into suicide. Dexter, under an alias, visits Meridian as a new patient under the pretense of investigating the psychiatrist and finding proof of his crimes. During these encounters Meridian is able to see through Dexter and understand elements of his own psyche that he himself is unaware of - managing to pinpoint certain struggles even he wasn't clear on and addresses them as a psychiatrist would with their patient. On a particular session he tries an exercise which unlocks repressed memories of his mother's death around the time he was having "intimacy issues" with his girlfriend Rita Bennett. After the exercise, the overwhelming feelings he felt after witnessing this traumatic flash of his past leads him to Rita's where they sleep together - bringing the two of them closer together. Dexter, in his final session with Meridian, would relay the success he had to him and the two smile...with Meridian believing there's real progress in his life. Shortly after he would reveal who he really was...and Emmett was less than forthcoming, attempting to flee. While they did not share any further words this episode (as Dexter taped his mouth shut on the table)...his encounter with Meridian set Dexter on a path to understanding his past as well as become closer with Rita. Generally these connections with the "killer of the week" aren't risky endeavors. Dexter almost always approaches them under an alias and keeps any elements to his personal life in the dark - if it can be helped. While some victims have proven dangerous to Dexter himself such as Little Chino, others remain unaware of his true intentions until they're already on his table. While Dexter may balance his personal and professional life around the kills, by the end of the day their bodies are disposed of and he's back to his life without concern for any major blowback (save for the discovery of his underwater graveyard, not in, but off the coast of Biscayne Bay in the ocean. Each of these victims are generally isolated to one episode though more than a few have lasted at least two episodes as something of a "Minor Antagonist". A majority of them take up the first half of a season, while the buildup of the Main Antagonist(s) lingers within all of the episodes of that season. Unlike the Killers of the Week, the Main Antagonist is far more integrated into Dexter's life than he intends. Sometimes these characters start as an intended target however something prevents Dexter from being able to capture and kill them until roughly the last few episodes. During this time they generally see Dexter on occasion, with repeated conversations and interactions with other characters melding them into his life. As several of these characters are Serial Killers themselves, this puts everyone he's closest to at risk - which ultimately has cost him the lives of several innocent people. The closeness of these characters also makes taking care of them more complex; their sudden disappearance, unless explained away by events Dexter may be able to manipulate, could cause suspicion - as it has several times throughout the series. The longer Dexter spends around these characters the more he puts family and friends' lives at risk, either physically or their reputations. Ultimately he succeeds in killing each of these characters like he does every victim...though whether or not he was able to prevent any fallout from their time together is more scarce than it should be. Throughout each season Dexter has a major storyline he's involved in - whether that be the developing relationship with Rita and her kids, a storyline involving someone close to him such as Harrison, Debra or Batista or even a major case that catches his attention. At some point a main antagonist crosses his path and they aide in these other storylines Dexter is dealing with - either initially as an ally or being the center of a big case he's working. For some characters, such as Lila West and Miguel Prado, Dexter becomes close with them as a lover or as a friend and the two often pair together in public - which often leads to those in his personal lives becoming aware of these characters. For those that kept their distance, such as Oliver Saxon and Travis Marshall, Dexter does not interact with them beyond an acquaintance until he's able to discover their identity as a killer - after that it becomes a game of cat and mouse, where the killer stays ahead of Dexter until he's finally able to kill them. From a professional standpoint - killers such as Saxon, Isaak Sirko and his own brother Brian Moser recognize Dexter's skills viewing him as a worthy adversary (in Brian's case, he's overjoyed that his brother is just like him). Regardless...unlike his other victims, Main Antagonists are able to connect with Dexter in a way that either touches his humanity or the Dark Passenger within, which leads to a lot of personal reflection as more events play out. Some of these characters help shape Dexter's journey or reach him a valuable lesson about whom he should let into his dark life. Unfortunately due to Dexter's need of these interactions, the risks mount up and his life is thrown into jeopardy. On more than one occasion Dexter has remarked that he should have killed the character sooner. Examples being both Arthur Mitchell and Travis Marshall - had Dexter acted sooner, Rita would still be alive and had Dexter just killed Travis when he first had him instead of buying into his psychological delusion about Professor Gellar - then Deb would not have found out he was a killer and a blood slide would not have been discovered by LaGuerta in the church where he killed Travis. Various issues could have been resolved if not erased had Dexter treated each "Big Bad" as a kill of the week and this folly could cost him more in the future. Minor Connections The following are each of Dexter's victims that he has had some level of connection, generally through the masks they wear in public or once the mask is pulled off on the kill table. As Dexter evolves as a killer he learns from each experience which gradually makes the act of capturing and killing these killers less risky - often times the victim's story ending after their disposal with little fallout surrounding it. There are exceptions to this case of course, when a kill connects with a main antagonist (such as Viktor Baskov or the Barrel Girl Gang) but generally a "killer of the week" is disposed of with minimal danger to Dexter or those around him. With his evolution, what lessons he learns from the victim will gradually reduce - as he would master the craft though certain instances will adjust how he handles victims after the fact. Excluded are victims in the moment - such as Esteban and Teo Famosa or Oscar Prado, as these kills aren't vetted with the Code or Dexter's awareness that they're an established killer is all the justification he needs. He generally does not have a one on one conversation with these characters - though he may gain some insight on who they were if he cares to investigate them (such as Oscar - and Oscar's death connects him with Miguel Prado). Each of the following victims is listed chronologically across the different series within the DEXTER Television Franchise. Nurse Mary Dexter's first victim, she was an "Angel of Death" that utilized a concentrated dose of potassium to kill her victims discreetly. As Dexter's first kill, his motivation for targeting her originated from his discovery that she was poisoning his father Harry Morgan and had he not acted - he would have been her latest victim. Once she's captured and on his table, he took time to flip through her scrapbook admiring her trophies - showing respect for the practice and one he himself would practice in the near future with the Blood Slide Boxes. Once he spoke with her she revealed her motivations - "helping" those she deemed slaves of their compulsions and she even claimed Harry was one, which prompted Dexter to express his first burst of anger - stating that he had lost his adoptive mother and now she threatened Harry, who was the only thing Dexter felt he had left. He places his hand on her chest and feels her intense heartbeat, which Dexter refers to as feeling his victims' fear - something he found he really liked. After her death he briefly held onto a pair of earrings she wore at the time of her death - which he admired to "reminisce" over the time he had her with her and help quell his Dark Passenger's urges - however he was eventually forced to dispose of them when they circulated into the hands of those around him. What Dexter Learned from this Victim As Dexter's original victim, many elements of the Code are utilized for the first time. Dexter first detects a killer by recognizing the darkness within them, he then discovers circumstantial evidence which hints further to her murderous ways. As the Code requires a higher degree of proof than that of the police, he investigates further - discovering a scrapbook of her trophies and analyzes the compound she kept injecting into his father which would have killed him eventually. He converses with her, utilizing both charm and his intelligence to probe her for information without exposing himself to suspicion. As with Dexter's early kills he also obtains the approval of his father to take care of the Nurse and Dexter in turn saves his first life with this kill when Harry makes a recovery. Dexter's successes outweighed his mistakes in this kill, as his only problem was a brief struggle he had in subduing her inside her home. This could also be aided by the fact that her house was already set up as a kill room - which forced her into an anxious state where she detected him sooner than he probably intended. Following this kill he would utilize stealth more in capturing his victims, though would struggle without access to Etorphine to subdue his victims relying instead on physical means of rendering them unconscious. He would also generally avoid subduing his victims inside of a kill room, as the unsettling appearance of a plastic-covered room could lead to a more frantic victim. Dexter wore a unique plastic coat with a hood for this kill (similar to an outfit worn by Patrick Bateman in American Psycho, a novel he enjoyed), where he tied the hood tight around his face only leaving his mouth and nose exposed when he plunged the knife into her. Blood sprayed out, covering the exposed parts of his face. After this kill he would start adopting his signature apron though had not yet considered a face shield for the bloodier kills. He was able to successfully dispose of Nurse Mary's body in Alligator Alley, proving to be the only victim that was completely consumed by the Alligators as opposed to his next victim. Due to the success of Mary's disposal, he attempted to utilize the Everglades two more times. Dexter kept a pair of her earrings, his first trophies. Harry reprimanded him for the act, referring to the act as "sick" and that the whole point of the Code was to make sure Dexter was different from those that he killed. More importantly the earrings put Dexter at risk of being caught, as they end up being found by his sister Debra Morgan who gives them to her friend Sophia and Dexter is forced to woo a woman for the first time in order to retrieve them. These earrings are disposed of later on in the Everglades and Dexter would completely stop keeping any personal effects from his victims as trophies - instead later adopting blood slides which he utilized until 2012 when Harry's warnings about trophies came back to haunt him. Tony Ferrer Dexter's second victim, he was a loan shark that pressured his debtors when they were unable to pay him back - threatening and even killing a few of them. Dexter learns of Tony from Angel Batista, whom refers to him as preying on the Cuban community. Once he's captured and on his table, Dexter's relaxed himself and even plays a game of Jai-alai as Tony awakens. He questions Tony about his victims, bringing up their names as he probes information for why Tony killed them. He reveals that his motivations were due to the opportunities he granted them (ones he claims he was given and didn't waste) and how they would blow the money he offered them on vices...that it set him into a rage. Dexter makes a point to blame him for the death of Rene Carballo, as having killed his mother resulted in Rene's suicide shortly thereafter - showing the fallout of Ferrer's actions and Dexter's first brush with the collateral a killer can create. Ferrer does attempt to bribe Dexter, which becomes a common theme of several of his victims in the future though Dexter's need to kill was an "itch" that money just couldn't scratch and he chooses to decapitate the man - with the blood spatter spraying across his exposed face. What Dexter Learned from this Victim Now more comfortable than with his first kill, Dexter utilizes even further trademark approaches to hunting this victim. He uses an alias for the first time and meets his victim in public, where he forms some sort of arrangement with them that guarantees the two of them will meet again. He investigates the victim's house looking for proof and utilizes the lab at Miami Metro Forensics to aide in this endeavor, both investigating his potential victims with the computer system and he uses lab equipment to match a bullet fired at him with the one used to kill one of Tony's victims. He also listed off the names of his victims to Tony as opposed to showing him pictures, to let him know why he ended up on his table. This is also his first risky kill room, having utilized a closed Jai alai arena for the kill room as opposed to using Tony's house as he did with the previous victim. Additionally this is the first time Dexter has alternated his kill method, having stabbed Nurse Mary he then decapitates Ferrer with a machete. Dexter's successes and mistakes are more apparent with this second victim than Nurse Mary. Dexter did not keep a trophy from Tony, having learned his lesson from the earrings he held onto from Mary. Despite utilizing stealth to approach Ferrer, Dexter still lacked an effective means of subduing his targets without a struggle and was forced to subdue him with a sleeper hold after being knocked around the kitchen for a moment. Dexter chose to subdue Ferrer in his home and he utilized his truck to move Ferrer to another location where the actual kill room was. This kill room was a major risk however - as he utilized a Jai alai arena which was closed for the night for the kill. As there's no information regarding security, it can be assumed that he did the homework to insure he would not be discovered but had he simply killed Ferrer in his home the risk would have been minimized. Or so it would seem, given his third intended victim - whom escaped his home and ran into his neighborhood. Dexter wore his signature apron and gloves but lacked a face shield for the kill - which resulted in the blood spatter covering his exposed face after he decapitated his victim. Following this, for bloodier kills, Dexter would begin utilizing a face shield though when he determined the ritualistic way of stabbing his victims with a knife it would become unnecessary for many later victims. Dexter was able to dispose of Ferrer's body in Alligator Alley however one arm, featuring a Golden Serpent ring, managed to avoid being eaten and was later called in to the police department when discovered. This marks the first time that one of Dexter's victims became the subject of a Miami Metro Homicide investigation - albeit briefly. Fortunately for Dexter a nearby alligator sparked an idea and he was able to dispose of the arm by the beast eating it which effectively pushes the investigation into an indefinite cold case. This is the first time that Dexter has utilized his Forensics Badge to gain access to a crime scene, ironically one of his own and also the first time it provided a convenient excuse for him to be in an otherwise remote area. Had he not brought the badge with him, it's possible that prints would have eventually led back to Dexter - ending his budding career as a serial killer before it truly began. "Mad-Dog" Dexter's third intended victim, Moretti was a professional hitman with a suggested kill count in the hundreds. TBC What Dexter learned from this victim TBC Levi Reed Dexter's third victim that officially makes him a Serial Killer, Levi Reed was the Home Invasion Killer who was responsible for the deaths of eight people including two children. TBC What Dexter Learned from this victim TBC Levi was intended to be dumped in the same swamp as his previous two victims and sat in the covered bed of his truck - as he rolled into the crime scene. This level of risk, having a dead body inches from being discovered by the police, would prompt Dexter to be far more careful with his kills though it would not be the last time this type of risk occurs - as his life becomes more complicated in his later years and certain elements at play have had created moments where he's nearly caught. Major Connections The following are each of Dexter's major victims (Main Antagonists) that he has had a deeper level of connection, either those that are connected to him via familial bonds, friendship and romance or those that have had a profound impact on his life - endangering him or the lives of those he cares about. Each of these characters encounters Dexter multiple times throughout a season, many of which start with an initial friendly relationship which gradually edges closer to being lethal. Dexter's intrigue with these characters often blinds him to the risks that they present and his desire to learn from them or the complexities surrounding who they are prevents him from capturing them as he would a killer of the week. Currently none of these antagonists have actually escaped Dexter by the end of their season, though several have come close - with Lila West getting the furthest when she arrived in Paris. Many are major serial killers, with at least two of them believed by authorities to still be on the run (despite Dexter having caught and killed them) - which unintentionally has its own degree of fallout associated with it. Excluded are members of Law Enforcement who have pursued Dexter, as they don't fit the Code of Harry and if they die it is the result of the fallout from the main antagonist of that season rather than Dexter himself (except for Sergeant Logan, who does not serve an antagonistic role). Each of the following victims is listed chronologically across the different series within the DEXTER Television Franchise. Aaron Spencer Captain Aaron Spencer served as Dexter’s first major adversary and child killer, being responsible for a spectacle manhunt framed on the Los Tigres Cartel while manipulating everyone around him into believing he was a grieving father fighting for justice. Relationship with Dexter Spencer and Dexter’s father Harry go back a long way - serving together in Miami Metro Vice alongside Harry’s best friend Bobby Watt. Spencer was responsible for organizing the Estrada Case which ultimately connected Harry to Dexter’s mother Original Sin and Dexter himself (as well as Brian Moser). This case ultimately came to a head when Laura lost hers - killed in the Shipping Yard Massacre which forever changed both of her sons into serial killers. Spencer’s interactions with Dexter as he grew up in the Morgan household are unknown, though it is assumed that they were as friendly as any other cop that hung around Harry. Dexter remarks to Spencer on his table that he always believed he was one of the good guys, which indicated that his impression of Spencer was that of a good man throughout the years. When he finally begins working with him professionally this viewpoint doesn’t change as he appears to act just like everyone else within the department - part of a family forged in Miami Metro Homicide. He shows him the respect a superior warrants and Spencer in turn is fair with him, considering he’s Harry’s kid and has intrigue into his potential as he grows within the department. As the Masked Kidnapper however Dexter views him as a monster - true evil incarnate, as anyone who would hurt kids (in Spencer’s own echoed words) “is a fucking evil animal”. Prior to knowing Spencer was the kidnapper he felt an intense desire to stop the kidnapper himself but he adhered to the Code as the case was far too high profile and he was far too inexperienced to handle him. Dexter channeled his urge to kill with other victims, which grew as the body of Jimmy Powell turned up and later Nicky Spencer was kidnappers. Seeing Jimmy’s corpse caused Dexter to lock up, feeling a lack of control and a strong unsettling feeling which impacted his ability to work. When Nicky’s finger shows up after Dexter’s third kill, Dexter finally decides to pursue the killer - eventually discovering that his identity was Captain Aaron Spencer himself. TBC Brian Moser Brian Moser is Dexter’s biological brother and an established serial killer referred to as the Ice Truck Killer (in his early adult years he was referred to as the N.H.I Serial Killer). Brian was responsible for the murders of at least five people in 1991; each of which carrying a different M.O. which Dexter theorized was the killer’s own evolution - figuring out how he wanted to kill and what he most enjoyed. 15 years later Brian began targeting prostitutes and cut them up into pieces, having drained the blood from their bodies leaving cold almost gift wrapped pieces as an elaborate game of cat and mouse with his brother while also toying with the police. Brian would introduce himself to Debra Morgan, under the guise of Rudy Cooper, appearing as if he was a loving boyfriend turned fiancee. Relationship with Dexter Brian’s entire world was based around his mother and brother, the only two people he genuinely cared for. As kids he would tease his brother keeping toys out of his reach or play with him, often times hugging his brother showing hints of his strong attachment to him. Following the tragic murder of their mother, Brian held onto Dexter and hummed verses from the three little pigs for three days that they were locked within the container - sitting in a pool of their mother’s blood. When they were finally discovered by Harry and Bobby, Harry rushed over and took Dexter out of his arms - with Brian’s left reaching out to his brother as he was left to sit there alone. Bobby came in after Harry and walked Brian out, who looked towards his mothers corpse as he was walked out of the container. Now with both boys in the custody of the state, Brian focused squarely on his brother - acting as both protector and in some ways his voice since Dexter remained mute following the incident. After their case worker states it’s not advised to separate siblings - she makes Brian a promise that he and Dexter will never be separated which he remembers into his adult life. Harry and Doris Morgan take in the boys, with the stay eventually ending when Brian’s angry outbursts and murderous instinct endanger baby Debra as well as his foster parents. When he’s separated from his brother he looks back to him, holding onto this memory as he grows up isolated in a mental hospital. As he ages his sessions reveal that he’s developed an extreme fixation on Dexter - a dangerous obsession that overrides his other impulses. After he’s released from the facility and begins his murder spree, he would continuously stalk Dexter at crime scenes present among the crowds of onlookers. He would also eventually kill the case worker Barb who had authorized his removal from the Morgan household, holding this grudge for the past 14 years. Many years later Brian would play an elaborate cat and game mouse with his brother, as the Ice Truck Killer. Dexter, who had previously connected with Brian’s M.O. as the N.H.I Serial Killer, feels a strange wonder in regard to every victim Brian leaves - viewing this killer as his new “playmate”. As the case continues on and the body parts pile up, Dexter’s amazement at each scene peaks his curiosity further - however he never tries to hunt him down, instead allowing the killer to operate unhindered actually looking forward to any new messages Brian left him or what the next phase of his game will be. When Brian eventually introduces himself as Debra’s new boyfriend “Rudy Cooper”, Dexter’s reaction to him is awkward at best - detached while Brian immediately hugs him with a wide smile, saying how long he’s waited for this moment. Brian would continue to play the role of Rudy Cooper, popping into Dexter’s work and even at his apartment to bond (while intended as brothers for Brian, he uses the smokescreen of it being about Debra). Eventually Brian is forced to act as the police narrow in on the Ice Truck Killer and he captures Debra, with Dexter realizing shortly before this that Rudy was the killer. His intrigue with the killer gives way to panic as he is wants to save his sister 1 their former games taking a back seat to her safety. Along the course of the investigation Brian slowly probed bits and pieces of Dexter’s past into each scene, even staging an elaborate bloody scene to help trigger Dexter’s memories of the shipping container. As Dexter’s repressed memories start revealing the truth of his past - he is eventually led to his old family home where he begins to remember his brother “Biney”, which finally allows Brian to talk to him truthfully. Despite their shared connection by blood, Dexter still remains focused on Deb - which Brian ignores as he hopes to finally be close with him once again. He’s eventually forced to incapacitate him with M99 himself and once Dexter awakes, he talks with him about his excitement that Dexter was just like him - that he feels if Dexter can shed this one last piece of the Morgan family (Deb) then they can be free to do as they wish in the world - together as brothers. Dexter does think on it, knowing that living his life the way Brian does would be one without regret - truly free. However…his fondness for Debra over the many years he’s known her and the growing connections he’s formed in his life causes Dexter to choose saving Debra over joining Brian. Brian, upset over Dexter’s belief system, tells him that he can’t be a killer and a hero - even tries tries killing Deb himself before he’s fought off by his brother. Despite the setback when he has the opportunity to deal with his brother he naturally chooses not to - instead focusing on killing Debra. Little did he realize that he was pulled into a trap and was eventually captured. Dexter laments that he has to kill his brother - saying that of all his victims he is the only one he wanted to set free but he knows that if he did Debra’s life would forever remain in danger. He even offers more sedative to Brian, so that he won’t feel what needs to be done…and Brian comforts his brother despite his decision to kill him. Even in his final moments, he could not hate his brother…and Dexter broke down in tears after cutting his throat - which would eventually escalate into a full scale halt of his killer activities with Brian’s death. Brian continued to linger in Dexter’s mind throughout the years, first a month after his death appearing as a vision (similar to Harry in later seasons) talking to him as if he was there. The trauma of his death on Dexter created an uncontrollable trembling feeling in Dexter’s hands - botching the kill of one potential victim and causes the escape of another before his eventual recapture. Once Dexter comes to peace with his loss - he bids his brother farewell, dropping a keepsake doll head (which Brian had left him in season one) into the water where it sinks beneath the surface. Brian’s name or his moniker of ITK would crop up over the years until Season Six where Dexter’s encounter with the Doomsday Killer Case sparked memories of his brother - ultimately culminating in his reappearance as a vision following the impulsive kill of a victim. Dexter “pal’d” around with Brian on a road trip, where “together” Dexter committed one murder and almost killed another - only to spare this victim (Jonah Mitchell). After choosing to spare him, “Brian” tries to stop Dexter from leaving - with Dexter bidding farewell to his brother once more as he starts to fall back into the Code of Harry. What Dexter learned from this victim TBC Lila West TBC Relationship with Dexter Lila, like Brian before her, became unnaturally obsessed with Dexter to the point of endangering those in his life. While Brian was drawn to his brother based on their familial bond since childhood, Lila was attracted to his darkness - her own depravity finding comfort in someone else’s. TBC Miguel Prado TBC George King TBC Arthur Mitchell TBC Jordan Chase TBC Travis Marshall TBC Isaac Sirko TBC Oliver Saxon TBC Kurt Caldwell TBC Important Lovers Lila, Rita, Lumen, Hannah "Lucky to have me? I wouldn't say so." ~Dexter "[Hannah] isn't drawn to my darkness like Lila, or blind to it like Rita, and she doesn't need it like Lumen. She accepts both sides of me." ~Dexter Rita Morgan (wife) Lila West Lumen Pierce Hannah McKay Angela Bishop Casual Sex Trisha Billings Laci Hot Soccer Mom (opening of "A Beautiful Day") Dated Mindy Taylor Cassie Jollenston Debra (Sister) Main article: Debra Morgan Dexter amuses Debra when he gives her a cactus "My sister puts up a front so the world won't see how vulnerable she is. Me, I put up a front so the world won't see how vulnerable I'm not." ~Dexter Next to Harry, the most influential person in Dexter's life was his adoptive sister, Debra. According to Dr. Evelyn Vogel, Debra was "a mirror, reflecting a positive image" of Dexter that balanced out his notion of himself as a monster. ("Scar Tissue"). Dexter was the most important person in Debra's life, but she didn't understand why he wouldn't share his feelings with her. When it came to Dexter, Debra had a blind spot and she only recognized his good qualities. In Season Seven, Debra discovered that Dexter was a serial killer, and it horrified her. However, she still loved him and tried to protect him. Unfortunately, Dexter's actions led to her shooting an innocent woman, which caused her severe emotional distress. In the final season, Debra was shot by Oliver Saxon. After surgery, she suffered a stroke due to a blood clot. Recognizing Debra's dismal future, Dexter turned off her life-support. As she was dying, Dexter told her, "I love you, Deb." In New Blood, though Debra is still dead, Dexter now imagines her presence in much the same way he saw Harry. She would give him advice on how not to kill, and how to keep living a normal life: in a way, she acted as his conscience. However, Dexter ignored her council on several times and ignored his conscience more than once. In his final moments, he imagined that she was holding his hand as he died, letting go just as he passed. Harrison (Son) Main article: Harrison Morgan Dexter and son, Harrison "I want to believe that smile, that watching your mother die hasn't changed you the way that watching mine changed me." ~Dexter (about young Harrison) Dexter, having grown up with lessons from Harry Morgan on how he could secretly kill people, decided that he did not wish to pass that kind of life onto his own son, Harrison. Therefore, Dexter hid his deadly activities and only showed Harrison his "human" side, along with letting him experience a mostly normal childhood. Dexter's original feelings about Rita's pregnancy were mixed but he ultimately accepted that his child would come into the world. After his son was born, Dexter began to evolve into someone who could actually care about someone. He enjoyed time with his son, fed him bottles, and played with him. However, Dexter was a serial killer and he was unsure how to survive in the years to come with his new family. Because of his interactions with another serial killer, Dexter found Rita murdered with a crying Harrison sitting in her blood. Because this was the exact same position he had been in as a child, Dexter became heavily concerned with whether Harrison would be affected like he was. Would the tragedy create a Dark Passenger in Harrison that would make him a killer? Following his wife's death, Dexter thought that he would not be a suitable single parent and almost deserted his son. However, he accepted the responsibility and did whatever it took to provide for and protect Harrison. To all appearances, Dexter was just a regular guy. Because he was a busy single parent, Dexter hired a nanny to watch over Harrison in times when he had to work or take care of his dark urges. The first nanny was Sonya and, later, Jamie Batista (sister of Angel). People in Dexter's life kept dying, usually for reasons related to his deadly activities. In the end, to protect the ones that he cared about, he abandoned Harrison to the care of Hannah, faked his death, and moved to an undisclosed location. Series Overview Note: This section contains a few of the main events in each season. For a more comprehensive look, refer to the article links or the tabs at the top of this page. Season One Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 1 and Season One. Dexter Morgan has settled into a steady life of ritualistic killing doubled with his life as a forensics blood spatter analyst. He is viewed by his colleagues as a lab geek. To appear normal, he dates Rita, a mother with two children (Astor and Cody) whose abusive husband is in jail. The police begin to investigate murder scenes involving dismembered bodies, but without blood. The murderer, nicknamed "The Ice Truck Killer," intrigues Dexter with this intricate methodology. The killer begins to leave Dexter personal clues in the guise of friendly competition between them. Season Two Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 2 and Season Two Thirty-eight days have passed since Dexter killed his brother. Debra, traumatized by her ordeal with the Ice Truck Killer, moves in with Dexter. Unexpectedly, scuba divers find the bodies of eighteen of Dexter's victims near Bay Harbor. An FBI Task Force arrives to help with the investigation and Dexter takes steps to divert suspicion away from himself. After Rita forces Dexter into NA due to lie he told, he becomes involved with another woman. Sgt. Doakes stalks Dexter because he believes that he is connected to the Ice Truck Killer. Season Three Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 3 and Season Three Dexter continues his double life as a serial killer and blood spatter analyst. Rita discovers that she's pregnant and decides to keep the baby. Dexter ends up proposing marriage to her, and she accepts. When Dexter kills another man in self-defence, the victim turns out to be the brother of ADA Miguel Prado. Dexter begins to view Miguel as a friend and they even kill together. However, Dexter learns that Miguel has been manipulating him, and they race to have leverage over one another. The season ends with the wedding of Dexter and Rita. Season Four Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 4 and Season Four Now married, Dexter and Rita live in a new house with her children, Astor and Cody, and their new son -- Harrison. Dexter attempts to adapt to life in suburbia, but finds it difficult to maintain his double life now that he is a husband and father. He soon targets serial killer, Arthur Mitchell (The Trinity Killer). Arthur has been killing for thirty years even though he has a family. Dexter is Intrigued by his ability to blend into society and puts off killing him. Instead, he befriends Arthur under an alias - Kyle Butler. This leads to dire consequences with Rita being murdered. Season Five Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 5 and Season Five The season picks up directly after the last one. Following his wife's funeral, Dexter hires a nanny for Harrison so that he will have free time to go "hunting." When he rents a moving truck, he finds human blood inside and tracks down a serial killer. This leads to his involvement with a woman who was raped by a gang of abusers. They join forces to kill the men. Meanwhile, Det. Joey Quinn begins to suspect Dexter of murdering Rita or being involved with The Trinity Killer. Season Six Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 6 and Season Six Over a year has passed since Lumen departed, and Dexter continues to eliminate killers. He develops a friendship with Brother Sam, an ex-con and murderer who now self-identifies as a born-again Christian. Dexter targets Jonah Mitchell, who now lives in Nebraska and apparently has killed his mother and sister. A serial killer who stages gruesome tableaus based on the Book of Revelation makes his appearance in Miami. Debra is shocked when she discovers Dexter making a kill. Season Seven Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 7 and Season Seven This season picks up with no time skip. Debra has just witnessed Dexter killing Travis Marshall. Dexter displays his acting skills and convinces Debra that it was an impulsive act. He then manipulates her to help destroy evidence. Captain Maria LaGuerta finds a blood-slide at the scene and it sparks her curiosity. She begins to suspect that Dexter is the true Bay Harbor Butcher. Dexter targets an attractive murderer, Hannah McKay. He takes her on a date, injects her with M99, but is unable to kill her. They continue to see each other romantically which causes friction between Dexter and Debra. In the final episode, Dexter is about to kill LaGuerta, but Debra appears in the cargo container and ends up shooting LaGuerta herself. Season Eight Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Season 8 and Season Eight Six months after Maria LaGuerta's death, Dexter's life is going very well, but Debra is guilt-ridden. She now works as a private investigator for Jacob Elway and feels nothing but hatred for Dexter. A new serial killer, dubbed The Brain Surgeon, appears in Miami. An expert on psychopaths, Dr. Evelyn Vogel, offers her assistance on the case. She reveals to Dexter that she knew Harry and helped with creating the Code. Dexter takes on a young psychopath as an apprentice. Hannah McKay returns to Miami and she and Dexter rekindle their relationship. Because Hannah is a fugitive, they make plans to move to Argentina with Harrison. Debra is shot by Oliver Saxon and she has a major stroke while in the hospital. Dexter turns off Debra's life support and buries her at sea. Feeling that he must protect the ones in his life, Dexter fakes his death during a hurricane and moves to the Pacific Northwest, leaving Miami and his career behind. New Blood Main articles: Dexter Morgan/New Blood and Dexter: New Blood Ten years after Season 8, Dexter is living a whole new life. He is living under a false name, Jim Lindsay, in the small town of Iron Lake, NY. With a normal job at a local game shop and a Chief of Police girlfriend, it seems he’s got life under control – until his son, Harrison, shows up and turns his world upside down. Rattled, Dexter yields to his homicidal urges. He ends up killing the son of a local townsman, Matt Caldwell, after he shoots a white deer on reserve grounds. Frustrated, Dexter brings him back to his house where he ends up stabbing him. He dismembers his body and tries to hide any evidence of the murder. Dexter even helps with the search for Matt the next day, while trying to cover the blood trail. He offers his house as the base for the search party that goes out looking for Matt. His girlfriend, Angela, thanks him for his help. Original Sin Main articles: Dexter Morgan/Original Sin and Dexter: Original Sin Narration Dexter is the only character in the show whose thoughts are heard by the viewer. Dexter often spoke in his head, sharing with the audience his point of view as a serial killer, while outwardly pretending to be normal. His comments usually included personal philosophy, dark humor, and killing plans. Unlike the narration in the books, Dexter narrated in the present tense in the show. This means that he only revealed what he was thinking about in the moment, and not predicting what was going to happen. Also, his narrating did not focus on secondary characters, such as Masuka, Angel or Quinn, as he wasn't aware of the details that came along with their private lives. On several occasions, Dexter broke the fourth wall and talked directly to the audience. In the pilot episode, he mentally introduced himself. Later, in the Season Six opening, a young woman was in his apartment and he mentally remarked, "It's not what you think." In New Blood, Dexter's internal narration was initially absent. This, in a way, was to show that he was suppressing his Dark Passenger and need to kill. It was only once he impulsively knocked out Matt Caldwell and decided to kill him that his narrations returned. He even addressed himself by internally going 'Hello Dexter Morgan'. (In the first few seasons, Dexter has more of a comical style to the way he refers to various situations.) Related Pages Bay Harbor Butcher 18 Bay Harbor Butcher Case Blood Slide Boxes Code of Harry Coral Cove Marina Dark Passenger Dexter's Accomplices Dexter's Apartment Dexter's Cabin Dexter's Kill List Dexter's modus operandi Dexter Morgan/Early Life Dexter's Rented Room Dexter's Rescue List Field Morgue Fred's Fish & Game Gulf Stream Harry Morgan's House Joe Driscoll's House Kill Ritual Kill Room Kill Tools Locations of Dexter's Kills Miami Miami Metro Homicide Miami Metro Police Department Rita and Dexter's House Shipping Yard Massacre Slice of Life Special Task Force Those Who Knew Dexter's Secret Underwater Graveyard Trivia Dexter web series - YouTube Dexter re-named his fishing boat from Slice of Heaven to Slice of Life in reference to him using knives. Victims that Dexter buries at sea are often reported as missing persons. Dexter jokingly mentions to Rita Bennett on their first date that he is an axe murderer. ("My Bad") In the original series, both Dexter's first and last (known) victims are females (Nurse Mary and Debra). Dexter’s blood type is AB negative. Most animals do not like Dexter, especially dogs. Not all animals dislike Dexter, as he was able to successfully keep several animals during his time in Iron Lake, and he was able to earn the trust of a White Deer to the point he could pet it. Dexter inherited his watch from Harry. Harry set up college funds for Dexter and Debra. While Dexter attended medical school, he killed an associate professor. (per Early Cuts) Dexter prefers to kill with knives instead of guns because it is more "intimate." Hurricane Laura shares its name with Dexter's biological mother, Laura. Dexter’s original marina, Coral Cove, is the same one where Harry had a slip. Dexter hides a getaway pack inside his bedroom wall (cash, burner phones, passports w/aliases). The killing of a mosquito in the opening theme song symbolizes Dexter's killing of a bad person. The Dexter TV series and the Dexter Novels have many differences regarding plots and villains. Dexter's role was possibly inspired by Miami's 1986 vigilante serial killer, Manuel Pardo. Pardo was an ex-Miami police officer who in 1986 killed at least nine drug dealers. As trophies, he had photos instead of blood slides. Pardo was executed in 2012 by lethal injection. Dexter's phone number as of Season Eight is [[1]], which was used for Zoey Kruger and also Dexter's realtor. Calling the number results in a voice saying, "I'm sorry, but this number's not programmed to take messages." Dexter is not a true vigilante killer, except for a few instances or in Season Five when he helps Lumen Pierce seek revenge. Although Dexter does kill murderers, it's not out of the goodness of his heart, nor is it to make the world a better place (per Jeff Lindsay). He simply thinks that it's better, as well as safer, to kill criminals instead of innocents due to his training. He did try to paint his following of the Code as vigilante justice to Harrison in New Blood, with Harrison initially believing him despite being disturbed by Dexter's disposal method. However, Harrison realised Dexter wasn't a vigilante after Dexter killed Sergeant Logan, he just enjoyed killing. Throughout Season Eight, Dexter is referred to as a psychopath by Evelyn Vogel. Viewers have debated if she was correct for several reasons which include: In his early life, Dexter was a happy, normal kid before witnessing his mother's brutal murder. When his wife, Rita Morgan, was murdered by Arthur Mitchell, he felt limited emotions like sadness and frustration, ending in a rage murder of Rankin. He also felt sadness when his adoptive sister, Debra Morgan, died from a blot clot after she was shot by Oliver Saxon. In many of the crime scenes where Dexter gathers photographic evidence for forensic evaluation, he uses a Nikon DSLR and a 105mm Micro Nikkor lens rigged with a Nikon R1 twin macro flash kit. This ensemble enables him to shoot extreme close-ups without any shadow detail whatsoever, the preferred end result for such criminal investigations. Notes Dexter was top of his class in medical school before quitting and becoming a blood spatter analyst. Dexter is right-handed, as shown by how he holds pens, handles knives, holds syringes, and the wrist he wears his watch on. However, when he plays golf, his stance and swing suggests that he is left-handed. There are two possible explanations for this: either his left hand just happens to be more dominant in this activity (it should be noted that there are many athletes in golf, baseball, and hockey who swing left despite being right-handed in all other activities), or he is ambidextrous (although this is uncommon). Dexter's character was possibly inspired by real vigilante serial killer Manuel Pardo. Pardo was an ex-Miami police officer who in 1986 killed at least nine people. His victims were drug dealers. As trophies he had photos instead of blood slides. Pardo was executed in 2012 by a lethal injection. However, he was more strongly inspired by Brazilian serial killer Pedro Rodrigues Filho, and the victims he killed were other criminals and prisoners alike, including his own, abusive father. Unlike Pardo, Filho remained alive to this day and had since reformed himself. In addition, he was since released from prison in 2018. Dexter is an organ donor. Dexter's blood type is AB negative. Overall, Dexter is a anti-villain protagonist as opposed to traditionally "good" ones. While he does have an anti-heroic attitude on killing only criminals who are likely to kill again, it's not out of the goodness of his heart nor is it to make the world a better place. Dexter simply thinks that it's better, as well as safer, according to the Code, to kill criminals rather than innocents to keep his urges in check. He has also occasionally killed innocent people, such as a random man in a toilet who he killed in a fit of rage for insulting his late wife.