“ The thing is, if you just do stuff and nothing happens, what's it all mean? What's the point? Oh right, this whole thing is about self-acceptance. [...] So I should stop judging - and accept? [...] So, no matter what I do, hooray for me because I'm a great guy? It's all good? No matter how many dogs I kill, I just what, do an inventory and accept? I mean, you back your truck over your own kid and you, like, accept? What a load of crap! [...] No, y-you know what? Why I'm here in the first place? Is to sell you meth. You're nothing to me but customers! I made you my bitch! You okay with that? Huh? You accept? „ ― Jesse venting during group therapy[src] Jesse Bruce Pinkman, also known by his clandestine pseudonym and business moniker Cap'n Cook, is a former chemist, manufacturer, and distributor who worked in Albuquerque, New Mexico, currently residing in Haines, Alaska. Originally a low-level methamphetamine dealer who worked with his friend and fellow meth cook Emilio Koyama, Jesse is best known as the former business and meth cook partner of his former chemistry teacher Walter White, teaming up with Walt for two years to help him manufacture chemically pure crystal methamphetamine so Walt could provide for his family (his wife Skyler, son Walt Jr., and infant daughter Holly) upon his death. Alongside catalyzing Walt's drug empire and being the second biggest player in it after Walt himself, Jesse and Walt were also the leaders of a short-lived meth distribution chain which his friends and fellow meth distributors were also a part of. Jesse was born into an upper middle-class family in Albuquerque (consisting of his father Adam, mother Diane, brother Jake, and aunt Ginny), but unfortunately his relationship with his parents would often become strained due to his frequent drug use, which later resulted in Jesse being kicked out of the Pinkman home. In high school, Jesse was an indifferent student in Walt's chemistry class at J. P. Wynne High School, though despite his poor academic standing, was able to graduate and received a diploma. During his adulthood, Jesse became impulsive and hedonistic, but was financially ambitious and streetwise. He talked in playful slang, played video games, listened to rap and rock music, took recreational drugs, and drove lowriders. His closest friends in Albuquerque were fellow small-time drug users and dealers Skinny Pete, Brandon "Badger" Mayhew, and Christian "Combo" Ortega. Jesse worked as a small-time meth dealer and distributor with Emilio and his cousin Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina before he was enlisted by Walt, who at that point knew nothing about the Albuquerque drug trade, to sell the meth he produced. Walt's scientific knowledge and dedication to quality lead him and Jesse to produce crystal meth that is purer and more potent than any competitors'. To avoid the tedious collection of pseudoephedrine required for production, Jesse and Walt devise an alternative chemical process utilizing methylamine, giving their product a distinctive blue color. Their crystal meth, which is given the street name "Blue Sky," dominates the market, leading to confrontations with established drug makers and dealers. Although Jesse and Walt began as amateur small-time meth cooks, manufacturing the drug out of an RV in the deserts of New Mexico, and being met with very limited success, Jesse and Walt soon climbed up the drug hierarchy, killing or systematically destroying anyone who impeded them. As a result of his two-year partnership with Walt, Jesse became an excellent meth cook, with Walt begrudgingly saying that Jesse's meth was as good as his. Because of his drug-related activities, Jesse eventually finds himself at odds with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) through Walt's brother-in-law Hank Schrader, the local gangs, and the Mexican drug cartels (including his and Walt's regional distributors), putting their lives at risk. Despite his criminal lifestyle, Jesse remained far more empathetic than Walt during their criminal careers. While Walt became immersed in the drug trade and had developed into a ruthless drug lord motivated largely by vanity, ego, and greed (adopting the clandestine pseudonym and business moniker "Heisenberg" as he immersed himself in the drug trade), Jesse was frequently horrified by the brutality at the higher levels of the drug trade, and was shocked at Walt's transformation from a sympathetic low-level dealer to a ruthless drug kingpin, once telling him that a meth empire was not something to be proud of. He is very protective of children and is able to connect extremely well with them.; his desire to keep children out of the violent drug world gave rise to several key events throughout his and Walt's criminal careers. The violent nature of the drug trade alongside the murder of an innocent teenager resulted in Jesse leaving the drug trade in 2010, leaving Albuquerque and successfully escaping to Alaska. Warning, the following may contain spoilers. Born in 1984, Jesse partnered with Emilio and Krazy-8 in the early 2000s to manufacture meth. Jesse operated under the pseudonym "Cap'n Cook", adding chili powder to make his methamphetamine stand out in the market. Jesse began his partnership with Walt in 2008, manufacturing chemically pure meth out of an RV in the deserts of New Mexico. At the beginning of his new career, he and Walt made mere thousands of dollars through street dealing, and were constantly met with failure. Following multiple tense, deadly partnerships with distributors Tuco Salamanca and Gustavo Fring that ended in their respective deaths, however, and with the help of Jesse, his and Walt's lawyer Saul Goodman (whom Jesse had chosen to hire following his conversation with Kim Wexler), Gus's former enforcer Mike Ehrmantraut, and Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, Walt eventually became the head of his own drug empire: the largest methamphetamine manufacturing operation in US history, branching as far as Eastern Europe. While Walt had developed into a ruthless drug lord motivated largely by vanity, ego, and greed, Jesse was horrified at the brutality of the drug trade, and often expressed strong feelings of guilt about the deaths of people he'd been associated with, especially the deaths of his girlfriend Jane Margolis and chemist Gale Boetticher, the latter Jesse reluctantly killed himself. He often attended Narcotics Anonymous meetings to help deal with these feelings. When the train robbery results in the death of an innocent child, Jesse decides to pull out of the meth business permanently. Mike convinces a local distributor to buy out their shares of the stolen methylamine, and after some compromises on Walt’s behalf, Jesse was free to leave the business. Later, upon learning a devastating revelation from Saul that Walt had poisoned Brock Cantillo, the son of Jesse's ex-girlfriend Andrea, Jesse betrayed Walt by teaming up with Hank, Walt's DEA brother-in-law who had become aware of Walt's criminal activities, and his longtime DEA partner Steve Gomez, to bring Walt down. Jesse put Walt into a trap when he falsely threatened to burn his accumulated fortune, and Hank and Gomez finally arrested Walt. At the last minute, though, Jack Welker and his gang appeared, Walt having just minutes before called them to come save him from Jesse, who Walt had thought was alone and about to kill him. Walt pleaded with Jack, but could not stop him, and, following a large shootout, Gomez was killed and Hank was executed. Jesse was betrayed by Walt to Jack, who, at Todd Alquist's request, took Jesse as a slave to cook meth for him and his gang. A failed attempt from Jesse to flee the compound resulted in Todd murdering Andrea which Jesse witnesses, wailing with remorse. Jesse would ultimately be saved by Walt, who massacred Jack and his gang to avenge the deaths of Hank and Steve. During the massacre, Jesse killed Todd in revenge for the murder of Andrea and for his imprisonment. Following the massacre and one final conversation with Walt, Jesse drove away from the compound, mentally and emotionally broken from the events that occurred throughout the course of his life. Jesse also displayed signs of post-traumatic stress disorder and began seeking to escape to Alaska for a fresh start, inspired by a conversation he'd had with Mike a year earlier. After evading the authorities with the help of his remaining friends Skinny Pete and Badger, Jesse used money taken from Todd's stash to pay Ed Galbraith to help him start a new life in Alaska under a new identity, Mr. Driscoll. Jesse's escape left only Saul for the authorities to hunt down, which they did in late 2010, and Saul receiving an 86 year prison sentence. Saul's arrest left Jesse as the only major part of Walt's drug empire to successfully escape justice. Contents 1 History 1.1 Background information 1.2 Better Call Saul 1.2.1 Season 6 1.3 Breaking Bad 1.3.1 Season 1 1.3.2 Season 2 1.3.3 Season 3 1.3.4 Season 4 1.3.5 Season 5 1.3.5.1 El Camino 1.4 After Breaking Bad 1.4.1 El Camino 1.4.2 Post-El Camino 2 Personality and traits 3 Deaths 3.1 Murders committed by Jesse 3.2 Murders connected to Jesse 3.3 Deaths connected to Jesse 4 Quotes 4.1 Better Call Saul 4.2 Breaking Bad 4.3 El Camino 5 Appearances 5.1 Breaking Bad 5.2 Better Call Saul 6 Trivia 7 Videos 8 Notes Quick Answers Who is Jesse Pinkman? Jesse Pinkman is a former chemist, manufacturer, and distributor who worked in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Provided by: Fandom Who portrayed Jesse Pinkman? Jesse Pinkman is portrayed by Aaron Paul. Provided by: Fandom Where does Jesse Pinkman currently reside? Jesse Pinkman currently resides in Haines, Alaska. Provided by: Fandom What caused Jesse Pinkman to be kicked out of his family home? Jesse Pinkman's frequent drug use caused strain in his relationship with his parents, resulting in him being kicked out of the Pinkman home. Provided by: Fandom What was Jesse Pinkman's role in Walt's drug empire? Jesse Pinkman was the former business and meth cook partner of Walter White, helping him manufacture chemically pure crystal methamphetamine. Provided by: Fandom History Background information A young Jesse playing the drums. Jesse Bruce Pinkman was born on September 24, 1984, to Adam and Diane Pinkman, an upper middle-class family in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He had a younger brother, Jake, and an aunt, Ginny. Jesse met Emilio Koyama in elementary school and befriended him, and later befriended Christian "Combo" Ortega. At some point in his early life, Jesse was the drummer in the the band "TwaüghtHammër" with his friends Brandon "Badger" Mayhew, Paul Tyree, Cheevo, and Anthony. Jesse also befriended Skinny Pete, who alongside Badger, would become Jesse's two closest friends. When Combo stole a baby Jesus from a Nativity set as a juvenile, Jesse accompanied Combo to juvenile court, where he was represented by public defender and attorney Kim Wexler, who helped Combo get out of trouble. ("Waterworks") Around this time, Jesse became involved in the use, manufacture and distribution of methamphetamine. Jesse attended J. P. Wynne High School and was a poor student, largely due to his inattentiveness and apathy. Jesse first met Walter White in his junior year when Walt was his chemistry teacher. Walt, whom Jesse continued to call "Mr. White," long after his graduation, flunked Jesse in his class, although Jesse's mother later recalled that Mr. White really believed in Jesse's abilities. ("Grilled") In high school, Despite his poor academic standing, Jesse was able to graduate, with Walt present on stage when he received his diploma. ("El Camino") On Jesse's Website, he mentions that he attended "DeVry University data systems management" along with J. P. Wynne High School. Jesse's mugshot. After being forced to leave his parents' residence, presumably because of his continued drug use with the final straw being when he took the blame for the pot his parents found in the house to protect his little brother Jake, Jesse moved in with his aunt Ginny, whom he took care of until her death from lung cancer. This likely occurred when Jesse was in high school as the school has his address listed as his aunt's former residence, not his parents'. Afterwards, he was allowed to stay in her home, the ownership of which fell to Jesse's parents. Jesse was long estranged from his parents during this time, due to his drug abuse and its attendant lifestyle. ("Crazy Handful of Nothin'") Jesse gets along with Jake, despite their differences in age and aptitudes, as well as Jesse's spotty rapport with his folks. In fact, Jesse seems to connect extremely well with children in general and avoids exposing them to his own destructive behavior, especially when to do so would be criminally inept and risky. Around this time Jesse quickly found his way into the drug scene, cooking and distributing his own signature chili powder meth with his partner Emilio, using chilli powder to make his meth stand out in the market. Better Call Saul Season 6 Jesse having a conversation with Kim Wexler. In 2004, Jesse is waiting outside of Saul Goodman & Associates when Saul Goodman's ex-wife Kim Wexler emerges, having just signed the divorce papers with Saul. At Jesse's request, Kim gives him a cigarette and Jesse recognizes her as the public defender who had once gotten his friend Combo out of trouble as a juvenile after he stole a baby Jesus from a Nativity set. Jesse isn't sure why Combo did it and Kim tells Jesse to tell Combo that she hopes that he's keeping his nose clean. Jesse notes Saul's shady advertising and, hoping that Saul can help Emilio avoid serving serious prison time, asks whether he is a legitimate attorney; Kim replies that Saul was when she knew him (as Jimmy McGill instead of Saul Goodman) before leaving, pulling over the hood of her raincoat and running to her car. ("Waterworks") Breaking Bad Inspired by his conversation with Kim and Saul successfully preventing Emilio from going to prison on two separate occasions, Jesse was convinced to trust Saul as a lawyer. Jesse would later encourage and convince Walter White to seek Saul for help months after he and Walt had entered the meth business in 2008. ("Better Call Saul") Season 1 When Walt accompanies his brother-in-law and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) agent, Hank Schrader, and his close friend and partner Steven Gomez, on a DEA drug bust, he waits in the car as they secure a meth lab operated by Jesse, under the alias "Cap'n Cook." At this point, Jesse emerges from the next-door neighbor's bedroom window and falls off the roof. Walt recognizes Jesse as his former student — who's running from the raid after an afternoon tryst with his neighbor — and watches him drive away in a car with vanity license plates that read "THE CAPN" ("Pilot"). Jesse in his car talking to Walter White Walt uses the high school's student records to track down Jesse, getting his former pupil to letting him enter the distribution side of the illegal drug trade. Walt plans to use his knowledge of chemistry to cook potent crystal meth that Jesse will distribute, giving him $7,000 to purchase the 1986 Fleetwood Bounder, an RV which will be used as a rolling meth lab ("Pilot"). It is later revealed that Jesse wasted most of the money while partying at a strip club, but Combo let Jesse purchase his family's RV for $1,400 ("Más"). Jesse is impressed with Walt's chemically pure product and approaches Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina, an Albuquerque meth distributor, over the prospect of doing business with him. Unbeknownst to Jesse, Krazy-8 is a DEA informant who is suspicious of the proposal. When Krazy-8 drives to the desert to meet the duo, his partner, Emilio recognizes Walt from the previous DEA bust. When they force Walter to reveal his meth formula, also planning to kill him after, Walt produces phosphine gas that kills Emilio and incapacitates Krazy-8, allowing him and and the unconscious Jesse to flee ("Pilot"). Jesse pouring hydrofluoric acid onto Emilio's corpse in his bathtub Walt has Jesse shop for a plastic container in which he plans to dissolve Emilio's body with hydrofluoric acid. Jesse—too ignorant and headstrong to realize that hydrofluoric acid does not eat through plastic—dissolves the body in the upstairs bathtub of his house, letting the acid burn a large hole through the tub and the bathroom floor under it and drop Emilio's bloody remains into a downstairs hallway ("Cat's in the Bag...")​​. After cleaning up the scene and disposing of Krazy-8 (who is kept captive in Jesse's basement for several days before Walt can bring himself to murder him), the duo are forced to sell their meth on their own. Walt and Jesse move their lab from the RV to Jesse's basement. Jesse in his aunt's house Jesse and Walt agree after their grim misadventure to forego any further association ("...and the Bag's in the River"). While meeting with his friends, Combo and Skinny Pete, Jesse drugs himself with the meth he and Walt cooked. After becoming paranoid, he drops by his parents' house and stays there for some time, until their maid finds a joint hidden in a vase. Jesse's parents kick him out again, believing that it was his weed, but in fact it belonged his younger brother Jake ("Cancer Man"). Jesse looks for a job and meets his longtime friend, Brandon "Badger" Mayhew. They decide to team up and try to cook more meth in the RV to sell, but Jesse is unable to reach the same quality level of Walt's meth. Jesse then visits Walt at his house, and the two decide to partner up once again, since Walt realizes he needs the money and Jesse realizes he needs Walt's help to make a decent product ("Gray Matter"). After Walt coughs multiple times and goes out the RV, Jesse, seeing a radiation treatment mark on Walt's chest, realises he has lung cancer, and tells Walt the story of his aunt who also had lung cancer. Jesse gives Walt some advice; to take an ice pack with him during chemotherapy. Jesse meeting with drug kingpin Tuco Salamanca. Their product becomes a big enough presence in Albuquerque's drug scene that it becomes the focus of an investigation by Hank. Unsatisfied with the minuscule amount of money Jesse is collecting, Walt convinces him to find a high-end distributor for their meth. Skinny Pete puts him in contact with Tuco Salamanca, a powerful Mexican drug kingpin operating in Albuquerque. However, at their first meeting, the psychopathic Tuco brutally beats Jesse and lands him in the hospital ("Crazy Handful of Nothin'"). After Walter strong-arms Tuco into a lucrative, albeit unstable, partnership, he and Jesse expand their operations after Walt promised to Tuco that he would bring him two pounds of meth, more than he and Jesse can ever produce with the materials they have. Walt and Jesse look on in horror as No-Doze is beaten by Tuco. The two end up stealing a large drum of methylamine, enabling them to produce large quantities of meth for Tuco, even though the meth now has a blue color because of the different ingredient, it is still the same high quality product. Their first batch of blue meth is successfully sold to Tuco, but during the meeting, one of Tuco's henchmen speaks out of turn, and Tuco viciously beats him unconscious for no reason, while Walt and Jesse watch everything horrified, pondering the danger of their situation ("A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"). Season 2 Jesse held at gunpoint by Tuco, who orders Walt to get in the car. Moments later, Tuco roars back to the junkyard in his SUV, ordering Walt to resuscitate an unconscious No-Doze. Walt is unable to help No-Doze as he dies as a result of the brutal attack. Tuco's other henchman, Gonzo, says they should give his buddy a proper burial, but Tuco orders him to stash the body underneath a stack of old cars. Walt and Jesse begin to leave, but Tuco questions them, to which Walt says they thought they were done. Tuco tells them coldly they are done. The two begin to leave, but Jesse is grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground. Tuco stares intently at the two as they depart. Jesse and Walt being held hostage by Tuco. Over at Jesse's house, he and Walt cook up a small amount of ricin. Their plan is to offer the ricin to Tuco in a sample of their latest meth formula. Jesse wonders whether Tuco will question their latest meth formula, but Walt says that Tuco will snort anything he gets his hands on. Hank calls Walt from a crime scene to apologize for attempting to reconcile a dispute between Skyler and his wife Marie. Laughing, he sends Walt a cell-phone picture of both No-Doze and Gonzo, whose bodies have been found at the junkyard. Gonzo had been trying to move his friend's body and became trapped in the stack of wrecked cars. Walt and Jesse stare at the photo in horror. After the DEA conducts a raid on his Albuquerque operations, the increasingly paranoid Tuco believes that Walt and Jesse are set to betray him ("Seven Thirty-Seven"). Tuco kidnaps the pair and takes them to a remote house in the desert, where he cares for his infirmed uncle, Hector Salamanca. There, Walt and Jesse are held against their will for several days, with Tuco stating his intention of taking them to a "superlab" in Mexico. Walter had already seen danger coming and attempt to poison Tuco with the ricin, but are unsuccessful when Jesse tells Tuco that their new batch of "meth" has chili powder in it; Tuco hates chili powder. However, the two escape after a struggle with Tuco. Walt and Jesse flee the scene, and watch as Hank—who has been guided to the house by chance through the LoJack on Jesse's car while searching for the missing Walt—confronts and fatally shoots Tuco ("Grilled"). Jesse with Badger's cousin, Clovis. Walt and Jesse wander through the desert before hitching a ride back to civilization. Realizing that it wouldn't be long before all kinds of cops would be after him, Jesse seeks help from his friend, Badger. They move the lab from Jesse's basement back to the RV. The RV is subsequently towed away by Badger's cousin, Clovis, and stored on his lot for a $1,000 storage fee, which Jesse can only pay half of upfront. The next day, Jesse awakens to find his mother evicting him from his home, since his family's lawyer informed him they legally own the house and have discovered that he was cooking meth in the basement. Jesse with his landlady and girlfriend, Jane Margolis. Unable to find a friend who will let him stay at their place until he can work out his housing situation, he gets his remaining few belongings and his motorcycle stolen as well, so he sneaks into Clovis' lot and passes out in the RV ("Down"), falling through the roof of a portable chemical toilet. Jesse eventually resolves to put himself back together. He buys an inconspicuous 1986 Toyota Tercel and finds a new apartment. The landlord, Jane Margolis, is a part-time tattoo-artist and also, as Jesse later finds out, a recovering addict. Living right next to Jesse in the same two-family building, it's not long before she and Jesse become romantically involved. Jane, however, tries to hide this relationship from her father, Donald Margolis, who is the property owner of their building. At the same time, Jesse's reputation skyrockets after people begin to believe that he killed Spooge instead of his wife (an event which Jesse witnessed, and would later give their child to the police to allow him to escape the drug-fueled home environment), and, thanks to Jesse's new reputation as a cold-blooded killer, he and Walt having no problem at all collecting payment. Walt decides the time has come to expand their territory and put Jesse's new reputation to good use. Jesse telling Walt they should hire Saul Goodman, stating that "when the going gets tough, you don't want a criminal lawyer, you want a criminal lawyer". Walt and Jesse have yet another problem to deal with when one of their dealers, Jesse's longtime friend Badger, is arrested by the police. At Jesse's request, having previously been convinced by Kim to trust Saul as a lawyer, Walt and Jesse decide to hire Saul, with Jesse explaining to a hesitant Walt that they do not need a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who defends criminals), but a criminal lawyer (a lawyer who is also a criminal). Walt loses a coin toss to determine who will go into Saul's office and pay his retainer fee. Upon entering the office, Walt introduces himself as Badger's uncle. Saul reports that the DEA wants Badger to lead them to a mystery man named Heisenberg. Saul initially insists on making Badger give up Heisenberg, but seems to reconsider when Walt offers him $10,000. Walt has another coughing fit. Upon returning to Jesse's car, Walt reports that Saul kicked him out of the office for trying to bribe him. Walt and Jesse confronting Saul in the desert. ("Better Call Saul (episode)") After nightfall, Walt and Jesse, donning ski masks, kidnap Saul as he leaves his office and haul him to a freshly dug shallow grave in the RV. Aiming a gun at Saul, Jesse instructs him to represent Badger and threatens to kill him if anyone snitches to the DEA. While Jesse and Walt have Saul on his knees in the desert, Saul utters "It wasn't me. It was Ignacio!" and he is relieved that "Lalo" didn't send them. Walt doubles over coughing, prompting Saul to recognize him. Saul instructs Walt and Jesse to remove their masks and each put a dollar in his pocket, thereby making their conversation protected by attorney-client privilege. The duo hear Saul's assessment of their situation: "Somebody’s going to prison. It's just a matter of who." Jesse and Walt talking to their lawyer, Saul Goodman, in the RV. After Saul agrees to work for them, the three men return to the RV where Walt insists that they share no details with Saul. However, Saul tells them that the money that he was given doesn't just extend to this job but gives them attorney-client privilege on all matters. However, Walt refuses to share any details while Saul is impressed by their setup and Jesse admits that they don't deal from the RV, much to Walt's annoyance. Jesse points out that Saul is standing in front of a meth lab, but Walt only wants to keep him on a need-to know basis. Jesse, who hadn't wanted Saul to see his face, asks if Saul had needed to know that. Saul realizes that the two men "are the whole freaking package" and that they make "the blue stuff". Saul begins playing with the round bottom flask and Jesse explains its purpose until Walt asks Saul to put it down so as not to risk breaking it. Walt finally cuts off Saul's questions after he deduces that Walt is Heisenberg, stating that they ask the questions while Saul only has one job and Walt is still unsure how he will pull off. Saul reassures Walt that he can handle it and Walt states that he's taking the $80,000 as a starting point for negotiation which Saul agrees to and calls shotgun, much to Jesse's irritation as he's left to sit on the floor. However, as Walt starts to drive away, the RV stalls, leading to an argument between Walt and Jesse. Saul interrupts the argument and asks if they can get him back to his office as Saul has work to do. Walt is sure that when the RV idles too long, the fuel pump overheats and they just need to let it cool down. Walt suffers a coughing fit as they wait and Jesse asks who Lalo is as Saul was pretty freaked out thinking that Lalo had sent Walt and Jesse. Jesse notes that he's never heard of anybody named Lalo before on the street, but Saul brushes off his questions by saying Lalo is "nobody". At Saul's request, Walt tries to start the RV again and it finally works and the three men drive off together. ("Breaking Bad") Jesse and Walt watching as James Kilkelly's arrest goes down as planned. Under questioning from Hank, Badger describes Heisenberg as a middle-aged bald man. Meanwhile, Saul hands Walt the dossier for James Kilkelly, a bald ex-convict known as "Jimmy In-'N-Out," who will willingly allow himself to be put in jail as Heisenberg for a fee. Saul outlines the cost: $80,000 plus a pound of Walt and Jesse's meth. The next day, the DEA and APD stake out the bus stop. Walt and Jesse watch from a distance in Walt's Aztek. Badger arrives on time, but James is late. Eventually a different bald man sits next to Badger, who doesn't know this isn't James. When the real James sits down on a nearby bench, Badger is busy soliciting the wrong man, trying to make the deal. Walt speeds around the block to the bench and makes Jesse intervene. After Jesse exits the car, Walt zips over to the stakeout vehicle to talk to Hank, thereby blocking their view and buy time for Jesse to redirect Badger. Jesse directs Badger to the correct bench and James' arrest goes down as planned. After later learning of Walt's true identity and lung cancer diagnosis from Mike Ehrmantraut, Saul decides to visit J. P. Wynne High School to meet with Walt and become his and Jesse's lawyer, despite Mike warning him that Walt and Jesse are more trouble than they're worth to get involved with. ("Breaking Bad") Saul walks into Walt's classroom, chiding him for being easy for his PI to locate. Walt asks if Saul is blackmailing him, but Saul says that he isn't. Saul offers to act as Walt's consigliere in his meth operation, providing him with the right connections and strategy to succeed in the drug trade, ending the conversation with "If you want to make more money, and keep the money that you make, Better Call Saul!" ("Waterworks", "Better Call Saul"). Jesse and Walt about to cook meth in the RV. Jesse makes plans with Jane to visit the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, but Walt derails the getaway when he tells Jesse that they need to cook non-stop until Tuesday. Walt tells him that their methylamine is losing its chemical potency. Walt arranges a ruse with Skyler to visit his mother in Oklahoma. Jesse picks up Walt at the airport and drive to the spot for their cook session, deep in the desert. When Walt scolds Jesse for tossing the RV's keys on their workspace, Jesse leaves the keys in the ignition. Unbeknownst to the duo, an indicator lamp on the dashboard lights up. Walt and Jesse are ecstatic when two days of cooking yields 42 pounds of meth, which will net them $672,000 each. However, their celebration is cut short when they realize that their generator has run out of gas, Jesse is concerned, but Walt insists that they keep cooking until they've exhausted the methylamine. Jesse suggests they break for the night: a trip to Denny's, a hot shower, and a bed instead of a cot are too good to pass up, he argues. Walt finally agrees, but they discover that because Jesse left the keys in the ignition, the dashboard indicator lamp has completely drained the RV's battery. Walt fumes at Jesse now that they are now stranded in the desert. Jesse finds out about Walt's lung cancer diagnosis. Walt siphons some gas from the RV and rigs the generator to jump-start the battery, but Jesse spills gas all over the generator. A subsequent spark sets the generator ablaze. Just as Walt arrives with a fire extinguisher, Jesse douses the flames with their remaining drinking water. "Excuse me for thinking on my feet," Jesse says when Walt blames him for their predicament. Jesse tries to call Skinny Pete for help, but can't get a cell phone signal. Walt's phone works, but he assumes that Skyler checks his call logs and only reluctantly hands it over to Jesse. Skinny Pete gets lost on the way due to Jesse's vague directions, and Walt's phone's battery dies before Jesse can redirect him. The next morning, Walt tries to "trickle charge" the battery by hand-cranking the generator. He and Jesse share cranking duties for hours in the hot sun. Taking a break, Jesse walks over to Walt, who erupts into a heavy fit of coughing. Jesse realizes that Walter's health must be eroding and that he lied about the methylamine spoiling. After still more cranking, the engine fires up briefly, but dies. Jesse punches the dash in frustration. He exits the RV to find Walt sitting in a field of grass, one palm covered in coughed-up blood. Jesse and Walt figuring out how to re-start the RV. Resigned, Walt and Jesse lay on cots in the RV to escape the desert heat. "I deserve this," Walt says. Jesse argues that everything Walt has done was for his family. Walt counters the only thing he ever did for his family was worry and disappoint them. "All the lies," Walt continues. "I can't even keep them straight in my head anymore." Jesse wants to start walking out of the desert, but Walt warns that he'll die within an hour. Jesse rattles off things Walt could create with their lab supplies — a robot, a homing device, a dune buggy — until one idea clicks with Walt: he can make a mercury battery using chemicals, coins, and galvanized metal. Explaining the science to Jesse as he goes along, Walt assembles the battery from whatever materials they can scrounge, including parts from the RV's brakes. The duo connect the battery to the RV and a big spark shoots off the terminal. Back in the RV, Walt tries the ignition and after several anxious seconds the engine groans to life. When Jesse drops off Walt at the airport, he assures him that, "Whatever happens, your family will get your share," Jesse replies. ("4 Days Out") At Jesse's apartment, Jesse awkwardly prepares Jane a surprise breakfast of huevos rancheros. Meanwhile, Walt leaves an apology on Skyler's voicemail for his behavior at the party. He starts washing the dishes, but stops when the faucet spits out brown, frothy water from the house's faulty water heater. Jesse and Jane lounge in bed while she peruses superhero sketches Jesse drew as a kid. Someone knocks on Jane's front door. Without explanation, she races out Jesse's back door and into her own apartment. Jane greets her father, Donald Margolis, just before he uses his key to open her door. While they talk, Jesse emerges from his apartment and introduces himself, but Jane brushes him off as the "new tenant". Jesse confronts Jane about how she treated him in front of Donald, believing that she is embarrassed by him. Jane responds that she can't admit to her father that she is sleeping with a stoner living next door. Disgusted, Jesse leaves. In his apartment, a distraught Jesse smokes meth and curls up in his recliner. A sheet of paper slides under his door. It's a sketch of a superheroine named "Apology Girl", leaving Jesse smiling. ("Over") Jesse and Walt meet with Saul following Combo's murder. After Combo was murdered by rival drug dealers, Jesse and Walt visit Saul's office, where their conversation quickly devolves into an argument over who's to blame for their setbacks. Saul puts a stop to the argument and after checking with Jesse that Combo didn't have anything identifying him as one of their dealers, says that the police are unlikely to spend much effort investigating his death. Walt angrily complains that their distribution network has completely collapsed, leaving them with no way of shifting the thirty-eight pounds of meth they have to hand after their recent cooking session. Saul is momentarily stunned by this revelation, and then bluntly tells them that they "suck at peddling meth," but offers to put them in touch with a cautious, low profile businessman who will buy their thirty-eight pounds of product in bulk. Later that day, Jesse asks Jane to leave his apartment; he feels responsible for Combo's death and needs to smoke some crystal, but doesn't want her to risk a relapse. Jane suggests a support group meeting, but Jesse rejects the idea. Jane starts to leave, but turns around and follows Jesse into his bedroom. Jesse and Walt at Los Pollos Hermanos. Walt goes to a local fast food restaurant, Los Pollos Hermanos, where he and Jesse are scheduled to meet Saul's businessman. Jesse arrives late, high, and agitated. Annoyed that they don't even know their contact's name, Jesse quickly leaves. However, Walt stays, hoping the businessman will show. Later, Jesse returns to his messy apartment, where Jane has relapsed. The couple decide to go on an impromptu trip to Santa Fe. Walt calls Saul, complaining that the businessman never showed up for their meeting. Saul informs Walt that the contact was in fact there, but that he's no longer interested in working with them. Walt demands a second chance, but according to Saul, "with this particular individual, all you get is the one shot." Walt returns to Los Pollos Hermanos and sits at a booth, eating and thinking, until it dawns on him that the restaurant's amiable, unassuming manager is Saul's contact. The manager feigns ignorance when Walt reveals his suspicions, but Walt persists. Walt says that he understands Gus's cautiousness, and feels that he deserves a second chance. His demeanour changing instantly to cold, meticulous steel, Gus counters that Walt is "not a cautious man at all,” and criticises Jesse for being late and high. Walt maintains that he can trust Jesse and assures him that he can move the thirty-eight pounds of meth at a moment's notice. Gus’s face remains unmoved , and he simply walks away, warning Walt, "You can never trust a drug addict." Pressing his luck, Walt asks if he will be in touch, and Gus reassumes his public mask and pleasantly confirms he has Walt’s number. Jesse going on a high after taking heroin. At his apartment, Jesse sits in his recliner listening as Skinny Pete leaves a voicemail recap of Combo's funeral. Jane arrives and introduces Jesse to heroin, handing him one of two hypodermic needles. With swift precision, she mixes up a meth and heroin speedball. Jesse injects the speedball and is immediately overwhelmed by the resulting high. Later, as Jesse and Jane fall asleep, Walt arrives at their apartment to find Jesse's meth stash. Reaching the duplex, Walt bangs on Jesse's front door, but no one answers. Walt rushes to Jesse's backyard and breaks out panel of the back door with a flower pot. Walt tries to awaken a passed-out Jesse, frantically trying to find out where he stashed the meth. Jesse mumbles that the meth is under his kitchen sink before going under again. While stuffing the bundles of meth into a garbage bag, Walt ignores another call from Skyler. When his phone chirps, Walt stops to read a text message: "BABY COMING!!!" He starts to smile, but realizes that he has to miss the birth of his daughter in order to make the meeting with Gus. Walt hoists the garbage bag over his shoulder and rushes out the door. ("Mandala") Jesse confronting Walt at his chemistry class in J. P. Wynne High School. The next morning, Jane is roused by a phone call from her father, Donald. She tells him that she overslept and is running late, but she'll see him soon. When Jane tells Jesse that someone broke into his apartment through his back door, Jesse races into the kitchen, finds the meth gone, and spins into a total panic. After Jane and Donald attend a support group meeting, the two talk at a coffee shop. Donald asks if Jane is seeing Jesse, and is unconvinced when she says she isn't. The next day, Jesse, after calling Walt several times and getting no answer or reply, goes to Walt's classroom and angrily confronts him for taking the meth stash. In response, Walt castigates Jesse for getting high, blaming him for being strung out during "the biggest deal of our lives" and missing Holly's birth as a result. When Jesse demands his share of $480,000, Walt refuses, saying Jesse will kill himself within a week if he spends the money on dope. Jesse insists he is clean, but balks when Walt hands him a glass beaker and challenges him to take a urine test. Jesse, realizing he's caught out, hurls the beaker against the chalkboard and storms out after Walt insults Jane. Jesse and Jane with their share of the money. Jesse takes another speedball under Jane's direction. While he does, he grouses about Walt and tells Jane that he owes him $480,000; she is shocked by the amount. Jane then adjusts Jesse's body so he's on his side, "in case you throw up". The following day, Donald attends a support group meeting without Jane. Returning to the duplex, he catches Jane exiting Jesse's apartment. Pushing past her, Donald enters the apartment and spots their heroin. Enraged, he attacks Jesse, who defends himself with a baseball bat. Donald, exasperated after a ten-year battle to save his daughter, calls the police to report Jesse and Jane, but relents when she promises to enter rehab the following day. Jesse is visibly relieved when Donald hangs up the call. However, after he leaves, Jane suggests that she and Jesse can do whatever they want if they get the money Walt owes to Jesse. Jane, identifying herself as "Jesse's junkie girlfriend," calls Walt and demands that he pay Jesse his share. When Walt still refuses to pay, Jane reveals that she has learned enough salacious information about Walt—such as his job as a high-school teacher and his brother-in-law in the DEA—to ruin him. Jane demands that Walt deliver the money that night. As Jesse continues to sleep, Jane dies after asphyxiating on her own vomit, with Walt making the difficult decision not to save her. While Jesse and Jane contemplate whether Walt will cave to their demands, Walt grabs Jesse's share of the cash and heads to the duplex. When Jane answers the door and tries to grab the duffel bag, Walt insists on only handing over the money to Jesse. Jesse then angrily takes the bag of money from Walt, and tells him that he wouldn't have to worry since he wouldn't ever need see them again. Jane threatens him again before she slams the door in Walt's face. Walt stands in front of the closed door with anger before turning away. With the bundles of cash in both hands, Jane giddily says that the money will allow them to go anywhere and become anybody they want. Caught up in the moment, the couple dream about using their money to start a new life in New Zealand after they get clean. They both look over Jane's supply of heroin and decide to take one last hit before going clean. Jesse unsuccessfully attempting to revive Jane with CPR. Walt then returns to Jesse's apartment in the hopes of talking sense to him. When he attempts to wake up Jesse, Jane flops onto her back. Moments later, Jane starts retching and choking. With Jesse still passed out beside her, Walt watches as Jane asphyxiates on her own vomit and ultimately dies. ("Phoenix") After waking up and noticing Jane wasn’t breathing, Jesse frantically tries to revive her, but to no avail. Distraught and panicking, Jesse calls Walt—then unaware of his role in facilitating Jane's death—who assures him everything will be okay, assuring Jesse that he knows who to call. Jesse being coached by Saul's fixer Mike Ehrmantraut on how to respond to the medical investigators. A short time later, a man named Mike Ehrmantraut arrives at Jesse's apartment. Mike gathers Jesse's drug paraphernalia and cash, clearing away all the evidence. Smacking the shell-shocked Jesse, Mike coaches him on how to respond to medical investigators and tells him to not disclose that he was there. Inside Jesse's apartment, Donald watches silently as paramedics move Jane into a body bag. In the other room with the medical investigator, Jesse follows Mike's rehearsed script. After answering a few police questions, Donald notices Jane's "Apology Girl" sketch, picks it up and leaves with it, with not even a glance towards a mortified, guilt-ridden Jesse. Jesse wrought with guilt after Jane's death. Later, Walt calls Saul and demands to know where he can find Jesse. Mike drives Walt to a dilapidated trap house known as "The Shooting Gallery". Against Mike's advice, Walt enters, makes his way past rooms full of junkies and locates a passed-out Jesse. As Walt insists on getting Jesse help, Jesse begins to dramatically sob as he clutches Walt. A tearful Jesse laments that he killed Jane. A saddened Walt is conscience-stricken by Jesse's anguish, as Jesse hugs Walt back. Walt takes Jesse to Serenity, a high-end rehab center. Sitting in a bathrobe by the pool, a despairing Jesse says, "What you said in the desert. I get it now… what you meant. I deserve whatever happens." ("ABQ") Season 3 Jesse learning self-acceptance at rehab. Jesse remains in rehab in the wake of the death of his girlfriend Jane. He participates in a group therapy session in which the group leader describes self-acceptance and self-improvement as essential to transformation. During another group therapy session, a despondent Jesse — blaming himself for Jane's death as well as the plane crash — asks the group leader, "Have you ever really hurt anybody?" He's shocked when the group leader admits that he accidentally killed his own daughter while intoxicated. "How do you not hate yourself?" asks Jesse. "I did, for many years," admits the group leader. But guilt and self-hate, he explains, stand in the way of true change. After Walt picks up Jesse from rehab, Jesse intimates that he is responsible for Jane's death and, by extension, the plane crash. Walt tries to make Jesse not blame himself for the tragedy, listing off a host of minor factors that he insists contributed more to the crash. "You either run from things, or you face them," Jesse replies. He's learned to accept about himself what Walt cannot: "I'm the bad guy." ("No Más") Jesse beaten up by Hank. After Hank has a lead puts him on the prowl for RVs, and is convinced and correct that the RV belonging to Jesse is a roving meth lab. Upon tailing Jesse, he finally finds it, only to be outsmarted in the end by Walt and a very law-savvy salvage yard owner. Walt (with the help of Saul and having Hank's personal cellphone number) draws Hank away from the RV by having Saul and his secretary Francesca send him a phony call about Marie being rushed to the hospital. The ruse gets Hank out of there long enough for them to destroy the RV and all evidence therein. Hank's frustration and rage are now aimed squarely at Pinkman, whom he blames for the bogus phone call, and using his family to distract him from the bust. ("Sunset") Hank drives immediately to Jesse and beats him unconscious. Jesse in the hospital. Once again, Jesse ended up in the hospital, this time recovering from wounds inflicted upon him by Hank as revenge for using his family to game him. While in the hospital, Jesse is visited by Walt, who is surprised that his manipulation of Hank has resulted in this major damage to Pinkman. ("One Minute") Upon hearing of Jesse's future plans to purchase another RV and cook once more, and also a token of loyalty, Walt convinces Gus to replace Gale Boetticher (his previous lab assistant) with Jesse. Jesse subsequently drops the charges against Hank who is almost murdered by the Cousins in a brutal ambush over the death of Tuco Salamanca. Now, Jesse and Walt are back together cooking as the team they once were, and making considerably more money. Jesse is Walter's only ally. ("I See You") Jesse with Wendy looking to poison two dealers working with Gustavo Fring. After shacking up with a crack whore named Wendy for weeks at the Crystal Palace, Jesse becomes involved with a young mother, Andrea Cantillo, whom he meets through his Narcotics Anonymous meetings. In doing so, he discovers the identity of Combo's assassin, who turns out to be Andrea's younger brother, acting on the orders of two gang bangers that happen also to be selling Walt and Jesse's product. Pinkman concocts a plan to poison the two, using Wendy's lunch delivery as his vector and the ricin made earlier to kill Tuco. Unbeknownst to Jesse, the two cohorts are protected employees of Gus, and after a tense meeting wherein Walt betrays Jesse to Gus, Jesse is forced by Mike to belay his assassination attempt. As a token, Gus orders the two rival dealers to quit using children in their line of work. Tomás, the 11 year old child-soldier, is then promptly terminated. It seems thugs like these two interpret "no more children" quite literally. Upon hearing this news, Jesse sets out to finish these two murderous child killers for good. After breaking his sobriety by snorting some crystal in his car, he is strapped and ready for vengeance as he approaches the two thugs on the street. Out of nowhere, Walt saves the day by maniacally running them down with his car, beating the surviving dealer to his fallen pistol and unflinchingly executing him on the spot with a point blank shot to the side of his head. Walt advises Jesse to "run". ("Half Measures") Jesse hiding in the laser tag facility. After a very tense meeting with Gus, Walt agrees to return to work, telling Gus that Jesse is on the run and will "no longer be a problem." With Gale reinstated as his lab partner again, Walt discovers Gus' plan of having Gale master the "Blue Sky" formula, meaning Gus would no longer have any need for Walt. After meeting with Jesse, who was, in truth, hiding out in town at an abandoned laser tag facility owned by Saul, the two agree that Gale has to die. Walt asks Jesse to follow Gale and find out his address, telling Jesse that he'll do the rest. Unfortunately, on his way to do the deed, he is stopped by one of Gus' henchmen, Victor, who escorts him to the superlab. Telling Walt that there was some sort of chemical spill in the lab, upon seeing Mike waiting there for him, it becomes clear that this is to be his execution. An upset Jesse moments before shooting Gale. With his life at stake, he offers up Jesse in exchange for his own life, saying that he can call and find out Jesse's location. Walt uses this opportunity to quickly relay the message that Jesse must now kill Gale and he must do it immediately. Jesse then arrives at Gale's apartment, trembling with tears in his eyes as he levels his gun at a pleading Gale and pulls the trigger, killing him. ("Full Measure") Season 4 Immediately after Gale's murder, Walter and Jesse are brought back to the superlab, where Gus slices Victor's throat with a box cutter in a gruesome show of force. The message of Gus' action is debated by Walt and Jesse, to no avail. Jesse ignores Walter's fears that Gus is planning to kill them, preferring to escape his guilt by setting up a perpetual rave at his house. ("Box Cutter") He places a large amount of drug money in Andrea's mailbox, urging her to leave Albuquerque with her young son, Brock Cantillo. Andrea says goodbye to him and he waves to Brock as her car pulls away. When the party disperses, Jesse is seen curled against the speaker, slowly breaking down as he turns the volume all the way up. Jesse becomes increasingly indifferent to his own welfare, stealing meth from the superlab to fuel his drug-laden parties. ("Thirty-Eight Snub") Mike informs Gus of Jesse's recklessness, but instead of ordering his execution, Gus has Mike take Jesse on an errand to collect drop money. For quite a while, Jesse is on edge, thinking that Mike will simply drive around until he gets the order to kill him. Despite his questions to Mike, he gets no answer and is told to shut up. For hours, he has no clue as to why this sudden change has taken place. Jesse finds solace in his endless, chaotic house parties. On the last pickup, Jesse sees a man approaching the car with a shotgun and attempts to run over the man and ultimately rams the man's car and drives away. It is revealed that the man with the shotgun was working for Mike and this was all just a test for Jesse, a test which he passed prompting Mike to call him a hero. ("Shotgun") A relieved Walt finds Jesse in the lab where Jesse tells him that he will be doing more work with Mike. When Walt informs Jesse of his suspicion that the alley incident was a setup by Gus to test Jesse's loyalty, Jesse reacts with hostility, while Walt declares his belief that Gus is trying to drive a wedge into their partnership. During Jesse's next assignment with Mike involving the retrieval of a stolen bag of product, Jesse shows some craftiness by getting one meth addict fixated on digging a hole in the yard and disarms another wielding a shotgun, which draws praise from Gus. Shortly after this incident, Jesse has resumed a relationship with Andrea and her son Brock, whom Jesse treats as a son. This is an extension of Jesse's ongoing compassion for children. ("Cornered") Walt, desperate to take out Gus, whom he believes is intent on killing him, thinks that Jesse is the perfect "vehicle" to kill Gus. But first, he must make Jesse distrust Gus. He tasks Jesse with killing Gus by the use of a vial of ricin, which Jesse hides in a cigarette. Later on, when Gus is having a meeting with members of the cartel, Jesse considers spiking his coffee with the ricin, but refrains from doing so upon realizing that he could poison the third parties present. At one of his NA meetings, Jesse breaks down and reveals that he is only attending to sell everybody meth. He asks the group leader how he feels about Jesse having "Made you my bitch". He leaves the group. ("Problem Dog") Mike and Jesse taking cover from a cartel sniper. Walt pushes Jesse to try to set up a meeting when he learns that Hank is investigating Gus, but backs off when he sees a text message implying that Jesse has been lying about not meeting Gus since the diner. Walt uses a bug to track Jesse's vehicle, learning that he had dinner at Gus's house the night before. It is not clear why Jesse changes his mind about poisoning Gus, since that was his intent upon accepting Gus' invitation. Walt confronts Jesse about his betrayal, causing a fight, which Jesse wins. The pair have a violent falling out as a result. ("Bug") Gus and Mike take Jesse on a trip to Mexico, supposedly in order to have him teach Walt's formula to the cartel's chemists. Impressed with Jesse's skill, Gus seemingly arranges to leave Jesse behind with the cartel. However, during a party, Gus uses a poisoned bottle of tequila to kill off the cartel's leadership, including Don Eladio Vuente. ("Salud") Jesse shoots and kills Joaquin Salamanca, who had just shot Mike. Jesse drives Gus and Mike away from the crime scene. Afterward, Gus offers to hire Jesse as his full-time cook. Jesse accepts on the condition that Gus spare Walt's life and that if Walt is killed, Jesse will not cook for Gus. When Walt's wife Skyler seeks protection from the DEA, Gus uses this information to portray Walt as an informant in an attempt to further the gap between him and Jesse. Walt goes to Jesse's house to plead for help, but Jesse throws him off his property. ("Crawl Space") Jesse confronting Walt about the missing ricin. Shortly after, Brock falls mysteriously ill. Jesse seems to correctly guess that Brock has been poisoned by ricin, arousing Andrea's suspicions. Jesse immediately assumes Walt is behind the poisoning, showing up at his house to confront him at gunpoint. However, Walt convinces Jesse that it was Gus who poisoned Brock, reminding him of his propensity for killing children. In the hospital, Gus came to talk directly to Jesse. Jesse has a brief confrontation with Tyrus about not appearing in the lab to cook, offering assistance in Brock's situation. He notified Walter about, who planned to arm a magnetic bomb in Gus' van but ultimately failed as Gus became suspicious. Later, Jesse is then taken in for questioning for his knowledge of a rare poison like ricin, and remains in custody while Walt struggles for options. Saul visits Jesse, who tells him about Hector Salamanca and Gus's frequent visits to the retirement home to taunt him with his victory in the struggle against the cartel. Saul relays this to Walt, who then visits Hector and enlists his help. Gus is subsequently killed when Hector activates a pipe bomb beneath the elderly drug lord's wheelchair. After learning of Gus' death, Walt storms the superlab and rescues Jesse. Jesse and Walt shaking hands after Gus' death. The two set about destroying the superlab by spilling its dangerous chemicals and rigging a crude ignitor. Jesse reveals that Brock was not poisoned by ricin, but by poisonous Lily of the Valley berries, believing the doctors' guesses that kids may easily eat the berries. Later, Jesse realizes that Gus couldn't have poisoned Brock. He assumes though that Gus had to go, and Walt agrees, assuring Jesse that killing Gus was the only acceptable course of action. Unaware to Jesse, Walt has a potted Lily of the Valley in his backyard, proving that Walt had poisoned Brock all along. Season 5 In the New Mexico desert, Jesse steps between Mike Ehrmantraut and Walter White to cool down their heated argument over Gus' murder. He again states his position. He helps Walt persuade Mike to destroy the security footage from the superlab, stored on Gus' laptop, instead of skipping town. He works with the two men and Old Joe to use a giant magnet to destroy the evidence inside the police locker at the APD HQ. The ploy works and the men escape in Mike's towncar. ("Live Free or Die") Jesse tears up and apologizes to Walt for not believing him when he denied poisoning Brock. He is seen crying and over thinking the theory someone took the ricin cigarette he "lost", Walt tells him he found it in Jesse's Roomba vacuum and Jesse calms down. He is with Walt when they talk to Mike, and Mike says that Jesse doesn't see Walt's dark side and that Walt is a time bomb, "tick tick ticking...", and that he doesn't want to be around for the boom, Jesse persuades him to join eventually and they become partners in the business. Later, when talking to Saul, Jesse tries to convince Walt they cook in a simple place, but Walt disagrees. Jesse reveals to the two that he can't find methylamine, and Walt tells him to keep looking. ("Madrigal") After Walt, Mike and Jesse agree that the best way to obtain their required methylamine is to rob a freight train shipping it (by having Patrick Kuby park on the tracks so as to block the train's path while the crew siphon the methylamine from it), they are seen by a child, Drew Sharp. Todd Alquist waves to the boy, but immediately draws his gun and shoots him despite Jesse's protests. ("Dead Freight") The incident has a very severe emotional impact on Jesse, who claims that he cannot deal with any more bloodshed, despite Walt's determination to have Jesse keep cooking with him. Jesse leaves without any money, stating that whatever happens now is on Walt. ("Say My Name") Jesse punches Todd after Drew Sharp's death. After Mike's disappearance, Jesse confronts Walt and asks him if Mike escaped, to which Walt semi-lies and states: "He's gone." When Jesse asks what they are going to do about Mike's guys, Walt states that he is the only vote left and that Jesse's input isn't required. A short time later, Walt arrives at Jesse's house and they briefly reminisce about their experiences, after which Walt leaves Jesse with two duffel bags filled with $5,000,000 in cash. Jesse collapses to the ground anxious, and slides a gun he was concealing along the floor after switching the safety on. ("Gliding Over All") Jesse becomes extremely introverted and emotionally distant, ignoring his friends' discussions and living in his own headspace. He takes the duffel bags and delivers them to Saul, instructing him to deliver half of the money to Drew Sharp's parents, and the other half to Kaylee Ehrmantraut. Saul calls Walt and tells him of Jesse's plan to give away the money, to which Walt responds by delivering it back to Jesse and trying to convince him that he rightfully earned it. Jesse cannot accept it because he sees it as blood money, and wants no part of it. He also suspects that Walter is responsible for killing Mike, a fact which Walt denies outright. It is clear that Jesse does not believe him in this instance, however. Later that day, Jesse is parked in his car and asleep when a homeless man asks him for change. He gives the man a bundle of cash from the duffel bag and then drives around town, erratically tossing the rest of the bundles of cash out of the car window into backyards, drains, homes and the streets. ("Blood Money") Jesse's emotional distance and disregard for everything becomes increasingly evident when he is found by a man who followed the money he had been throwing to his car. Jesse is mindlessly spinning on playground equipment with his money sitting in his passenger's seat. He is brought in for questioning by two police detectives (who had questioned him earlier about Brock's poisoning), and when he does not move an inch or make a sound, the agents decide to step out while Hank enters the interrogation room. ("Buried") Walt advising Jesse to leave town. In the Albuquerque PD interrogation room, Hank turns off the police's video camera and addresses the still-comatose Jesse. He tells Jesse that he knows Walt is Heisenberg. This stirs Jesse from his torpid state. Hank offers to help Jesse if he informs on Walt, but Jesse stays mum until Saul arrives and demands to speak to his client alone. Saul berates Jesse for his stunt with the money. Jesse tells him to chill out, but Saul warns that things have gone "nuclear" since Hank discovered the truth about Walt. Walt later meets Jesse and Saul in the desert to ask Jesse for details about his encounter with Hank. Jesse explains that Hank wanted him to inform on Walt, though he doesn't think anyone else at the DEA knows about Hank's suspicions. Walt suggests Jesse skip town and get a new identity. Jesse recoils, asking that if Jesse doesn't leave town, Walt will kill him the same way he killed Mike. Instead of snapping back at him, Walt hugs Jesse, who breaks down in tears ("Confessions"). Jesse confronting Saul Goodman over the ricin cigarette used to poison Brock. Saul swiftly arranges for the Extractor to take Jesse away to a new life. However, when Jesse lights a joint in his office, Saul makes him put it out: the Extractor won't take Jesse if he's high. Jesse finally acquiesces and puts the weed in his pocket, but Huell bumps into him as he exits. As Jesse waits for the Extractor, he searches his pockets for his weed stash. He finds only his pack of cigarettes. Jesse realizes that Huell not only took his pot today, he must have stolen the ricin cigarette from Jesse before Brock was poisoned. A nondescript mini-van pulls up in front of Jesse, but he ignores it and storms off in the other direction. Jesse charges into Saul's office, locks the door and starts beating the hell out of the lawyer. Saul tries to retrieve a gun from his desk, but Jesse grabs it first. Not understanding why Jesse is so upset about the pot, Saul wails for Huell - who finally breaks the door and bursts into the room, telling him "The ricin cigarette! You had Huell steal it off of me and all for that asshole Mr. White." Saul admits it, but vehemently insists he had no idea of Walt's plan to poison Brock. Jesse grabs Saul's keys and leaves in a rage. An apoplectic Jesse tears into the White house driveway in Saul's car. He storms into the house and begins dousing the living room with gasoline. ("Confessions") It is revealed that Jesse was stopped moments later by Hank, who had been following him around. Hank persuades him not to burn the house down, and to instead join forces with him to take Walter down as a team. Jesse agrees and Hank takes him home to let him sleep in the guest bedroom for the night. Jesse wakes up to find Hank and Gomez waiting for him in the Schraders' living room. "You're never gonna catch him with a camcorder," Jesse says as Hank sets up a video camera. He argues that it's his word against Walt's, now that Walt is retired. Hank waves off Jesse's misgivings, and asks him to describe on camera everything he remembers about Walt's business dealings and criminal activity. Later, Hank plays Jesse the voicemail that Walt left him, in which Walt asks Jesse to meet him at noon the next day in Albuquerque's Civic Plaza "to talk." Jesse balks, suspecting that Walt will kill him at the meeting. Hank admits that Jesse's right, but points out how much Walt seems to care for Jesse. He argues Walt would never try anything in public, and doesn't allow Jesse to refuse. ("Rabid Dog"). Later at Civic Plaza, Gomez sets up surveillance while Hank tapes a wire to Jesse's chest. After giving him a quick pep-talk, Hank ushers Jesse out into the Plaza. Jesse nervously approaches the meeting point and spots Walt sitting on a bench. Nearby, a hard-looking man in a leather jacket is surveying the crowd. Suspecting he's a hired gun, and seemingly with new purpose, Jesse veers away and heads to a pay phone, where he calls Walt. As Walt leaves the Plaza, a young girl runs up and hugs the hard-looking man - he was only a random bystander. Walt was just there to talk after all. Hank hurtles toward Jesse and forces him into the car, blasting him for backing out of the meeting, but Jesse tells Hank there's a better way to get Walt. ("Rabid Dog"). Unbeknownst to Jesse, due to his refusal to hear him out, Walter has now called Todd to contract a hit on him. Gomez listens to Jesse's plan. After the failed sting, despite Gomez's doubts that Jesse can come up with a useful plan to get Walter, Jesse shares that they need one solid piece of evidence of Walt's criminal activities, but Walt got rid of any possible evidence linking to him, except for one thing: his money. If they can find the money, there is nowhere for Walt to run. Gomez asks if Jesse knows where the money may be, Jesse answers that he doesn't — but there is someone who may know. At the Schrader home, Gomez brings a package of calf's brain and some information: Huell Babineaux has been taken into witness protection to be interrogated about the money. It's now Jesse's turn in the developments ahead. They fake a picture of Jesse lying dead on the floor, the brain that Gomez brought adding to the illusion. When Huell is shown the photo at the safehouse, he immediately tells the team he and Kuby had rented a van to move Walt's money, placing it into barrels and delivering it in the rental van to Walt. Huell does not know where the money is buried. Some hours pass, and at the Schrader residence, Gomez tells Hank that the rental company Walt used to move his money didn't use GPS trackers on their vans. Jesse urges them not to give up on finding the money now. Hank says that it is very possible that Walt buried his money somewhere in the desert, and Gomez immediately says that there is no way that they can simply find out where the money is buried. Hank comments that they know that the van didn't have GPS tracker — but Walt doesn't. A few moments later at the car wash, Walt receives a picture message of a barrel full of cash buried in the dirt followed by a phone call from Jesse. Jesse claims he's going to burn everything, the one in the picture and "the six others." Jesse witnessing Walt's arrest by Hank and Gomez. Walt rushes to his car and speeds through Albuquerque to the location of his buried money. ("To'hajiilee") Walt demands over the phone that Jesse not burn it, but Jesse says that if Walt turns off the connection for any reason, he will burn all of the money. Walt hopelessly yells at Jesse not to do it, he reveals to Jesse that his cancer is back and he won't even live enough time to spend a single dollar from the money, it belongs to his children and no one else. Jesse is angry at Walt for bringing children into this conversation. Walt says that his poisoning of Brock was not to kill the boy, he only needed to have Jesse on his side to kill Gustavo Fring. Jesse continues to threaten Walt, who says that all the crimes he committed were to protect Jesse — Walt killed both Emilio and Krazy-8 and ran over two drug dealers just to protect Jesse. Walt says that he cares about Jesse like he was his family, but he is the only one who can't see this. Walt arrives at the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation and notices that there is no trace of Jesse anywhere around the area where the money is buried — he was just lured into a trap. Jesse's horrified reaction as Walt confesses that he watched Jane die. With Jesse's help, Hank and Gomez finally arrest Walt, who calls Jesse a "coward" as he's being read his Miranda rights. Jesse approaches the handcuffed Walt and spits in his face, leading to an attempted fight which is quickly stopped by the DEA agents. Gomez orders Jesse to get in Walt's car and wait, but all too soon, two vehicles arrive. Jesse's expression turns to horror when he recognizes Todd and hears Walt's screams, and realizes that Walt must have put a hit on him (confirming his worst fear). Jack and his gang turn an already tense situation into a shoot-out. Jesse takes cover inside Walt's car as the bullets start to spray. ("To'hajiilee") After the situation comes to a head with the murder of Hank and Steve, a seething Walt reveals that Jesse had been hiding under his car during the entire shoot-out. The gang members drag Jesse out and put him on his knees, Jack points his gun at his head and Walt gives Jack the nod to kill Jesse. However, Todd stops his uncle from pulling the trigger, suggesting they interrogate Jesse to find out what the DEA knows. Jack says that once they are done with the interrogation, they will finish Jesse off, and Walt agrees to the plan without hesitation. Jesse yells and resists while being taken to the gang's truck until Walt briefly stops them. He then reveals to Jesse that he watched Jane Margolis die, and did nothing to help her as she choked to death on her own vomit while high on heroin ("Phoenix"). A horror-stricken Jesse becomes quiet as he is hauled away. Jesse is kidnapped by Jack Welker's Gang. Jesse wakes up later in the bottom of a concrete cellar at Jack Welker's Compound, his face beaten to a pulp. Todd drops a ladder down and Jesse pleads that he has told them everything already — that Hank and Gomez were working alone and his video confession is still at the Schrader Residence. Todd kindly takes him up the ladder into a warehouse and tethers him to a hanging cable on a rail in Jack's meth lab. As Todd walks off, Jesse notices a strange photo on a steel bar on the other side of the lab, he walks to see it while dragging his tether with him: It's a picture of Andrea Cantillo and her son, Brock Cantillo. Todd reappears in his yellow hazmat suit and says ominously to Jesse, "Let's cook." ("Ozymandias") Jack Welker's Gang watch Jesse's confession video. Jesse has a near-brush with death once more when Jack Welker realizes that he'd sold his nephew Todd out to the DEA on account of his murder of Drew Sharp (via Jesse's confession video they'd stolen from the Schrader residence), but he is saved by Todd, who pleads with Jack to keep Jesse alive so they can cook more meth (and keep Lydia Rodarte-Quayle happy at the same time, as he has feelings for her). Jack decides to let Jesse live, while it's revealed that Jesse now has the photo of Andrea Cantillo and Brock Cantillo from the lab with him in his cage. He removes its paperclip and begins to pick his handcuffs. Once Jesse has unlocked his hand and ankle-cuffs, he tries to reach the cage bars above his head. Jesse wailing with remorse after Todd murders Andrea Cantillo. Hearing Todd approaching, he quickly puts the cuffs back on and pretends to be resting. Bringing Jesse some ice cream to celebrate the latest 96% pure batch, Todd congratulates him and tells him to get ready to cook another batch in the morning. After Todd leaves, Jesse frees himself again and manages to escape the cage. He heads to the fences, but unknowingly runs past a security video camera and is caught by the white supremacists while trying to climb the fence. Refusing to cook meth for them anymore, Jesse tells them to just kill him. Instead, they take Jesse, bound and gagged, to Andrea's house. Todd walks to the front door and rings the doorbell. Andrea answers and believes Todd's story that he is a friend of Jesse's and brought him to see her. Jesse, terrified and horrified, despairingly tries to scream from inside the car to alert her, but Andrea is unable to see him before Todd pulls a silenced pistol out and shoots her in the head from behind. Jesse wails with remorse as he witnesses her drop to the ground, dead; as Jack tells him, "Remember, there's still the kid." Jesse continues to cry uncontrollably, wracked with sadness and guilt, likely both at Andrea's death because of his actions, and that Brock is now an orphan because of it. ("Granite State") El Camino Todd and Kenny supervise Neil Kandy in building Jesse a new cage following his escape attempt. The three torment Jesse, though Todd expresses some concern that Jesse could break his leg and be unable to cook for them. Jesse is later visited by Todd while the rest of the gang is out and Todd requests his help with something. Todd takes Jesse to his apartment complex where they add a canopy to Todd's El Camino together. Todd attempts to bribe Jesse into not shooting him. After getting rid of his nosy neighbor, Todd reveals the body of his murdered cleaning lady Sonia who he wants Jesse to help him get rid of. Todd has Jesse look in the hollowed-out encyclopedia on his desk, revealing Todd's drug money. Todd explains that he murdered Sonia for finding it. Over soup, Todd discusses finding a new hiding place for the money, one that will take some engineering but will be perfect. Todd later has Jesse help him bury Sonia's body in the desert. While looking in Todd's glove compartment, Jesse finds Todd's gun and considers shooting him, but Todd calmly talks Jesse down, offering to buy him pizza. As Jesse begins crying, Todd awkwardly tries to comfort him. ("El Camino") Later, in a dreamlike moment, a younger and happier Jesse is finishing a wooden box for his woodworking class back in high school ("Kafkaesque"). The box is perfect and Jesse enjoys the smell of it as he gives it the final touches. A second later he's jolted awake from the daydream in a moment months later, bearded and scarred, still a prisoner of Jack Welker's Gang, cooking meth for them in the warehouse. Jack watching as Jesse and Walt look at each-other, moments before Walt tackles Jesse to the floor to protect him from the rain of bullets. Later, in an angry effort to prove to Walt that he's not working with Jesse, but rather that Jesse is working for him, Jack has Todd bring Jesse, bound in handcuffs and ankle-cuffs, out of the meth lab and into the clubhouse, where Walt and the gang await. Jesse is brought to the room and Jack tells Walt to take a good look at Jesse, saying that he'd never partner with a rat. Walt approaches the ragged Jesse, inspecting the ghost of his former partner as Jack continues to trash talk to him. Understanding that Jesse is a captive, and not willingly complicit in the gang's meth production, Walt feigns anger and tackles Jesse to the floor. Jack's gang are amused and start laughing at the struggle. Kenny jokes as Todd tries to get Walt off of Jesse, but Walt pushes the trunk-open button on the car remote control. Jesse kills Todd moments before Walt kills Jack, getting justice for Andrea and Hank respectively. Outside, the trunk of the car opens, exposing the mounted machine gun. It automatically starts to open fire, oscillating on the garage door opener's motor, and rips through the vehicle and building. The rain of bullets start a mayhem inside the clubhouse room and quickly kills Kenny, Frankie, Matt and Lester. Todd ducks in time to avoid the fire but Jack is seriously injured by a bullet to the abdomen. Walt covers Jesse as the machine gun continues to fire bullets through the wall and windows cutting through everyone that was standing. Through the racket, there is the sound of a muffled impact, and Walt gasps, but continues to lie on top of Jesse, keeping him out of the line of fire. After the M60 runs out of ammo, Todd crawls to the window in a daze, wondering who's shooting at them. Jesse jumps up and starts to strangle Todd with the chain of his handcuffs completely full of rage for his captivity and Todd's murdering of Andrea. The two men struggle on the ground as Walt watches but does nothing to interfere. Todd struggles, but Jesse perseveres until Todd's neck snaps and his body falls limp. Walt asks Jesse to shoot him. After Walt has killed Jack, the last surviving gang member, Jesse unlocks his hand-and foot-cuffs and gets up, now facing Walt, who still has the pistol in hand. After an intense and silent stare, Walt slides his gun to Jesse, who picks it up and aims at Walt. Walt tells him "you want this" to which Jesse replies that he won't pull the trigger unless Walt says he wants it. Walt admits "I want this," but Jesse notices Walt is bleeding from his side. He drops the gun and tells Walt to do it himself. Jesse driving away from the compound to freedom. (Felina) In a final moment outside, Jesse and Walt share one last look of acknowledgement as the two nod farewell to one another. Jesse gets in Todd's car and plows through the gates of the compound to freedom, laughing and crying hysterically; he at last has his chance to start over ("Felina"). After Breaking Bad El Camino Immediately following Jesse's escape from the compound, Jesse gets help from Skinny Pete and Badger to hide the El Camino, which had belonged to Todd, for the night, and tries to get Old Joe to take it for demolition, but Joe finds the car equipped with LoJack, meaning authorities are likely looking for it in connection to the shooting at the compound. Skinny Pete offers to cover for Jesse by leaving the El Camino there, while Jesse takes Badger's car to escape. Jesse goes back to Todd's apartment, knowing from past events that Todd has a stash of money there. Jesse reuniting with Skinny Pete and Badger. After literally tearing apart the entire apartment looking for the money, Jesse begins to despair before inadvertently finding the money, hidden inside the refrigerator door. Before Jesse can fully pry the door open, he runs into two police officers investigating the apartment. Jesse quickly takes one of them hostage, but surrenders when the other officer tells him Jesse doesn't have any other choice. However, Jesse quickly realizes the two men aren't officers but are thugs looking for the money as well. Before anything can happen, they are interrupted by Todd's neighbor. Jesse leads Neil to the money, but insists on taking some for himself. Though Neil threatens him to leave, Jesse refuses to, surmising if he shoots him, Neil, and his partner, Casey, would have to kill everyone else in the apartment complex who was a witness. Reluctantly, Neil gives Jesse a third of the money, but only as he leaves does he recognize him as the owner of Kandy Welding Co. who built the harness used to imprison him in the lab at the compound. In addition, Neil was the same man who watched him, with Todd, get tormented by Kenny. Jesse with Ed Galbraith at Best Quality Vacuum. He goes to see Saul's "disappearer", Ed Galbraith with the money to get out of the state and start a new life, but Ed wants not only payment for his services, but the payment from the previously-missed pickup, totalling up to $250,000. Jesse is short by $1,800 however. After unsuccessfully trying to convince Ed to help him, he decides to get the rest of the money. He calls his parents to claim he wants to turn himself in, but this is only to lure them out of the house so he can find his father's guns, a Colt Woodsman and a Smith & Wesson Safety Hammerless. Jesse forcing Neil Kandy's men to flee. Jesse travels to Kandy Welding Co. to ask for the remaining funds. Neil offers to duel Jesse for the money, stating whoever wins takes the other's share of the money. But as Neil draws his gun, Jesse quickly shoots him down with the second gun hidden in his jacket. Casey, panicking, tries to shoot Jesse, the two exchanging gunfire, but Jesse manages to shoot him in the head, killing him. He forces the other men there to flee, threatening them with their lives, takes Neil's share of the money, and blows up the shop to cover his tracks. Jesse with Ed in Alaska. Jesse pays Ed, who takes him to Alaska to start a new life, an idea given to Jesse by Mike. During the journey, Jesse remembers Walt, who once encouraged him to pursue college and told him that he's lucky he didn't have to wait his whole life to do something special, during their meth business together. When they finally arrive in Alaska, Ed quizzes him on his new identity as Mr. Driscoll and wishes Jesse luck on his fresh start, noting the people like them don't usually get one. Before driving off, Jesse gives Ed a letter to mail to Brock as a farewell. As Jesse drives off, he recalls Jane's advice about life and that only he can make the decisions in his life, smiling as he begins anew. ("El Camino") Post-El Camino On November 12, 2010, following Jesse's escape to Alaska, Francesca Liddy tells Saul that he and Jesse are the only ones left of Walt's organization for the DEA to go after. While the DEA are still hunting for Jesse, he has gotten away with Francesca having heard that his car was found near the Mexican border where Badger had planted it as part of Skinny Pete's plan. Francesca quips "adios, dopehead" while telling Saul how Jesse had successfully gotten away, leaving only Saul for the authorities to hunt down. ("Breaking Bad") Following Saul's arrest after a failed attempt to flee after his true identity was exposed by Marion, Saul reveals the details of his kidnapping by Jesse and Walt when they forced him to help Badger. Saul initially claims that he had fled not in fear of the law, but in fear of Jesse, Walt, and their associates, but later confesses his pivotal role in helping Walt building his drug empire, claiming that Walt could not have done it without him. With Saul being sentenced to 86 years in federal prison, Jesse is now the only former member of Walt's drug empire still at large. ("Waterworks", "Saul Gone") Personality and traits "Jesse is a leader who thinks he's a follower." ―Vince Gilligan Jesse Pinkman is introduced as an impulsive and hedonistic man, but also personable and possessing street-smarts. He talks in playful slang, frequently using words like "yo" and "bitch", and likes to wear garish clothing that follows the latest trends in youth culture, plays video games, listens to loud music, takes recreational drugs, and drives a car fitted with hydraulics. Jesse's MyShout page lists his general interests as "Fine herbage! Keepin' it real, etc." Jesse often enjoyed hanging out and smoking with his friends, Badger and Skinny Pete, and purchasing items like a giant-screen television for his home or a Roomba vacuum cleaner. Despite "yo" and "bitch" being the most famous and popular insult of Jesse, it’s worth noting that Jesse almost never uses the word to describe women. It's no surprise that Jesse does quite well for himself with the ladies. The two notable exceptions are when he used the word to describe Skyler White (though not in her presence) and when he called his mother the word to her face. Jesse's shocked reaction to Todd Alquist murdering Drew Sharp. Jesse adores women and children, and harming one is a very good way to send him into a murderous rage. Using children in criminal activities is particularly heinous in his eyes. He has been shown to have personal connections with several children throughout the series, such as Spooge's son and Brock Cantillo. Jesse also takes Todd's murder of Drew Sharp, a young boy who witnessed them committing the train heist, very hard and is furious that Walt and Mike decide to continue working with Todd, with Mike later giving a threatening warning to Todd that Mike would kill him if he brought a gun to a job without telling him again. While Todd defended his killing of Drew, stating that he had witnessed the heist and thus was a threat, Jesse retorted that the kid was too young to understand what was going on. It was Drew's death and Walt and Mike continuing to work with Todd that finally pushes Jesse over the edge and causes him to exit the meth business once and for all. While Jesse was not a very good student, his mother said that his chemistry teacher, Walter White, saw potential in him. Walt later told Jesse that he "never thought much" of him, though he did frequently write "Apply Yourself" on Jesse's graded quiz papers and, when meeting Hank Schrader, his mother said "Mr. White must have seen some potential in Jesse, he really tried to motivate him, he was one of the few teachers who cared." Initially starting out as a street-level meth dealer producing his signature chili powder meth, Jesse would later deliver on the potential Walt saw in him, producing a product on his own which Walt begrudgingly concedes is as good as what Walt himself produced. The meth that Jesse cooks in front of the Cartel chemists has a purity of 96.2%, making it possibly superior to that which was produced by Gale Boetticher who held an advanced degree in chemistry. In addition, Jesse's cook at the cartel superlab was superior to that of Benicio Fuentes, the cartel chemist who was noted by Don Eladio Vuente to have multiple fancy college degrees. However, at the same time, Jesse's lack of chemistry education can be seen in the fact that he didn't know how to synthesize one of the compounds he would need, something that the cartel chemist stated that a sophomore chemistry student could do. By this point, Jesse had enough confidence in his abilities to take charge in the superlab and order the cartel staff around, channeling Walt's behavior in the lab. Though the staff begrudgingly followed his commands, both Gustavo Fring and Mike Ehrmantraut were visibly proud of his attitude. ("Salud") Eventually, Walter even refers to himself and Jesse as "the two greatest meth cooks in America." ("Say My Name") Despite being constantly underestimated, over the course of the series Jesse proves himself to be quick thinking and perceptive. Jesse also comes up with several clever plans, namely the magnet plan, the train heist and his plan to get money from Neil and Casey. Jesse's reaction before reluctantly killing Gale Boetticher. Unlike Walt, who was initially heavily reluctant to use violence but gradually came to see it as a necessity, Jesse was frequently horrified by the brutality at the higher levels of the drug trade, and did not like to kill innocent people, with all but one of Jesse's victims being criminals. Jesse has a serious reaction to killing Gale Boetticher, who, despite being a meth cook, is an otherwise decent and innocent person. Jesse does not take the experience lightly, the moment where he becomes a murderer changes him for the rest of the series from that point on. At first, Jesse has somewhat of a delayed reaction to what he has done; when Walt asks Jesse at the Denny's, "Seriously, are you all right?", he continues to eat his pancakes and bacon and seems completely fine, even in light of the terrible experience he had been through ("Box Cutter"). However, it later becomes quite clear that he is mentally damaged, and - in order to keep himself from reflecting on his guilt of the terrible thing he did - he surrounds himself with other people, keeping a 24/7 party going for whenever he is home from the lab. However, his subsequent killing of Joaquin Salamanca appears to only leave him stunned for a moment ("Salud") and he doesn't hesitate at all to kill Todd Alquist ("Felina") or Neil Kandy and Casey, though he only threatens the latter two when he believes they are not police officers, not wanting to harm cops. ("El Camino") Unlike Gale, the other four people killed by Jesse were criminals and not innocent people with all. With Todd, Jesse killed him in revenge for Jesse's captivity and torture for months and Todd's murder of Andrea Cantillo, and as such was the only person that Jesse killed willingly and while full of rage. With Neil and Casey, Jesse tried to avoid violence, but Neil left him no other way out. He also appeared to have tears in his eyes briefly after killing Neil and Casey, though he quickly recovered within moments. Out of the series' entire cast, perhaps second only to Walt, Jesse's personality changes have been the most dramatic; most noticeably after Jane's death and Gale's murder. His time with Walt has transformed him from a laid-back jokester and much of the show's comic relief in the early seasons, to a troubled, woeful and sorrowful shadow of his former self as the series has progressed. As a result from looking after Brock and dating Andrea, Jesse became more caring towards children, even punching Todd in the face for killing Drew. Earlier in the series, after witnessing the severe neglect Spooge's son suffered, Jesse called 911 and left the line open to ensure the police would find both the murdered Spooge and his son, making sure the boy would get a better life. When carrying the boy outside, Jesse took care to make sure that he didn't see the carnage as well. After escaping from Jack Welker's Compound, Jesse appears to suffer from post traumatic stress disorder from the brutal torture of the gang and from Walt's treatment towards him. While showering, Jesse experiences a flashback to being sprayed with water and has a violent reaction towards Skinny Pete and Badger after waking up and thinking he was back in his cell. When talking with Neil Kandy, Jesse states that if he's caught, he's dead anyway, suggesting that after his imprisonment by the gang he considers going to prison to be a death sentence for himself. Now dedicated towards starting a new life for himself, Jesse appears to have regained much of his old personality rather than the submissive one he was forced to take on during his captivity but with greater traces of violence. Jesse begins his new life in Alaska. During his second confrontation with Neil Kandy and Casey, Jesse showed a pragmatic approach to the situation, only requesting exactly the amount of money he needed and brushing off the mockery aimed at the Colt Woodsman he was armed with. When the situation escalated into a Wild West-style duel, Jesse won because he secretly kept a second gun hidden in his jacket pocket which he used to kill Neil before exchanging fire with Casey. Throughout the conversation, Jesse kept the Woodsman on display in his pants, but kept his left hand in his jacket pocket and presumably on the other gun in case he needed it, something none of the men in the shop noted to be out of the ordinary. This led to Neil, Casey and the other men underestimating Jesse. When threatening the other men, Jesse responded to one telling Jesse that he has children with "do you think I give a shit?" before threatening to use their names and addresses to come after them if they told anyone what he did. However, it's clear that Jesse didn't actually mean his threats as he departed for Alaska shortly thereafter and just meant it as a means of intimidation and a bluff. After arriving in Alaska, Jesse is shown to be pleased that he is finally free of his past and of his chance to begin anew, leaving all the horrors he has experienced behind him completely. ("El Camino") Deaths Murders committed by Jesse Gale Boetticher: Reluctantly shot in the face to protect his and Walt's lives, and to ensure they would be the only Blue Sky meth manufacturers available. ("Full Measure") Joaquin Salamanca: Shot to death during a shoot-out in self-defense. ("Salud") Todd Alquist: Garroted and neck broken with Jesse's metal chains in revenge for enslaving him and for killing Andrea Cantillo. ("Felina") Neil Kandy: Shot to death. ("El Camino") Casey: Shot in the head. ("El Camino") Murders connected to Jesse Emilio Koyama: Poisoned with Phosphine gas by Walt to save himself and Jesse. ("Pilot") Krazy-8: Secured Krazy-8 to a pole with a bike lock, leading to Walt strangling Krazy-8 to death with the bike lock. ("...and the Bag's in the River") Tuco Salamanca: Killed by Hank in a shootout while he was searching for Walt and found Jesse's car in Tuco's hiding place. ("Grilled") Tomás Cantillo: Due to Jesse's protest of Gus' dealers using children, Gus told them to stop using children which led to Tomas being shot to death by the dealers. ("Half Measures") Rival Dealers: Ran over and one shot in the head by Walt in order to protect Jesse. ("Half Measures") Tyrus Kitt: Blown up by Hector Salamanca from Jesse's information on Gus' rivalry with Hector. ("Face Off") Gustavo "Gus" Fring: Succumbed to injuries sustained in Hector's pipe bomb explosion; Jesse told Saul Goodman about Gus' rivalry with Hector which led to Walt orchestrating Gus' assassination. ("Face Off") Steven "Steve" Gomez: Shot to death by Jack Welker's Gang due to his alliance with Jesse to catch Walt. ("Ozymandias") Henry "Hank" Schrader: Shot in the head by Jack due to his alliance with Jesse to catch Walt. ("Ozymandias") Andrea Cantillo: Shot in the head by Todd due to Jesse's refusal to cook meth with him and his attempted escape from Jack Welker's Compound. ("Granite State") Kenny, Matt, Frankie, Lester, and two unnamed gang members: Killed after Walt activated the remote-activated M60 machine gun to help save Jesse. ("Felina") Jack Welker: Shot in the head by Walt to help save Jesse. ("Felina") Deaths connected to Jesse Jane Margolis: Jesse and Jane's heroin use ultimately resulted in her suffering a drug overdose and suffocating from her own vomit, with Walt making the difficult decision not to save her. ("ABQ") 167 People aboard the Wayfarer 515: After Jane's death, her father Donald was grief-stricken and consequently unfocused, made Wayfarer Flight 515 collide with another plane. ("ABQ") Hector Salamanca: Jesse's knowledge of the rivalry between Hector and Gus led to Walt asking Hector to assassinate Gus as a suicide bomb to which Hector agrees. ("Face Off") Walter White: Triggered a mounted machine gun to kill Jack's gang and accidentally got hit by a ricocheted bullet while shielding Jesse, later succumbing to his wound. ("Felina") Quotes Better Call Saul "Dude is standing in front of a meth lab, it's not like he ain't gonna put two and two together!" ―Jesse's response to Walt not wanting to give Saul any details[src] Jesse: "So. Who's Lalo?" Saul: "Who?" Jesse: "Lalo. Thought some dude named Lalo sent us. You seemed pretty freaked out. Never heard of no Lalo on the street." Saul: "It's nobody." ―Jesse asks about Saul's freakout over Nacho and Lalo.[src] Jesse: "Hey, yo... Can I bum one of those? Thanks. [gestures towards the rain] What's up with this shit?" Kim: "Raining." Jesse: "Yeah. I dunno, it's... It's crazy! Like, bananas, all this rain. I mean, I thought we were, like, in a desert, y'know? You're a lawyer, right? [Kim turns to him] Yeah. I recognize you. You defended my buddy, Combo. Christian Ortega? Juvie court, little baby Jesus? I mean, not like a real baby. Just, uh... y'know, one of those things outside of the... church?" Kim: "Nativity scene." Jesse: "Yeah." Kim: "Knights of Columbus." Jesse: "I mean, what the hell did he even want that thing for? Huh? I mean, I—I still don't know, dumbass. I told him he could go to hell for stealing something like that. I mean—But did he listen to me? No. But you... You got him off, like, scot-free, that... That was pretty slick, yo!" Kim: "Well... Tell him I hope he's keeping his nose clean." Jesse: "Yeah, yeah. Right on. Absolutely. Uh... Hey, so, you having all this expertise and all... This guy, Goodman... [pause] He the real deal? Like, lawyer-wise?" Kim: "Why do you ask?" Jesse: "I got a buddy in there who's facing some serious time. I mean, not... y'know, not baby Jesus time, but... but serious. You know, he needs top-shelf legal representation. And I tell him that, right? But, you know, he sees this dude's commercials on TV, and this is where he wants to go. I mean, I tell him, "Yo... Emilio, you know, a funny TV commercial's not a sound... basis for, like, you know... [pause] I mean, like, would you go to a doctor to do, like, an operation on you in, like a... On, like your spleen, or whatever... All on the fact that there was a funny TV commercial? No. I mean, c'mon. How is this any different, y'know?" Anyways... This guy. Any good?" Kim: "When I knew him, he was." ―Jesse asking Kim Wexler if Saul Goodman is any good.[src] Breaking Bad "Yo 148, 3-to-the-3-to-the-6-to-the-9. Representin’ the ABQ. What up, biatch? Leave it at the tone!" ―Jesse's former voicemail greeting[src] Walter: "You lost your partner today. What's his name - Emilio? Emilio is going to prison. The DEA took all your money, your lab. You got nothing. Square one. But you know the business and I know the chemistry. I'm thinking...maybe you and I could partner up." Jesse: "You, uh...you want to cook crystal meth? You. You and, uh...and me?" Walter: "That's right. Either that...or I turn you in." ―Walter blackmailing Jesse into cooking meth with him.[src] Walter: "Look. You skipped, clowned around or otherwise jerked off through every lecture I ever gave. As far as I'm concerned, your chemistry education is over." Jesse: "Oh okay, be a dick about it." ―Walt to Jesse.[src] Walter: "Did you learn nothing from my chemistry class?" Jesse: "No. You flunked me, remember?" Walter: "No wonder." Jesse: "Prick! And let me tell you something else. This ain't chemistry – this is art. Cooking is art. And the shit I cook is the bomb, so don't be telling me." Walter: "The shit you cook is shit. I saw your set-up. Ridiculous. You and I will not make garbage. We will produce a chemically pure and stable product that performs as advertised. No adulterants. No baby formula. No chili powder." Jesse: "No, no, chili P is my signature!" Walter: "Not anymore." ―Walter dismayed by Jesse's laboratory and his method of cooking his drug.[src] Jesse: "This is glass grade. I mean, you got...Jesus, you got crystals in here 2 inches, 3 inches long. This is pure glass. You're a damn artist! This is art, Mr. White!" Walter: "Actually it's just basic chemistry, but thank you, Jesse. I'm glad it's acceptable." Jesse: "Acceptable? You're the goddamn Iron Chef! Every jibbhead from here to Timbuktu is going to want a taste!" ―Jesse commenting on the meth Walter cooked.[src] Jesse: "Hey, no, no. Hey, don't give me that, okay? I held up my end. I already took care of Emilio. You're still diddling around trying to get your nut up." Walter: "Yeah, well, boo-hoo. I have the truly awful job here." Jesse: "Oh, you wanna... You wanna talk awful? You wanna go there? Try dragging 200 pounds of stink up a flight of stairs. I barely got him in the bathtub." Walter: "Bathtub, what? What do mean, bathtub?" Jesse: "You know, and that's another thing. Why you got me running around town trying to find some stupid piece of plastic when I have a perfectly good tub I can use?" Walt: "...I’m sorry, what were you asking me? Oh, yes. That stupid plastic container I asked you to buy. You see, hydrofluoric acid won’t eat through plastic. It will however dissolve metal, rock, glass, ceramic. So there’s that." ―Jesse to Walt about the dissolution of Emlio's body, later being informed on hydrofluoric acid after the bathtub incident.[src] "I got two dudes that turned into raspberry slushie then flushed down my toilet. I can't even take a proper dump in there. I mean, the whole damn house has got to be haunted by now." ―Jesse referencing the dissolving of Emilio and Krazy 8's bodies in the bathtub[src] Walter: "Let's get something straight. This - the chemistry - is my realm. I am in charge of the cooking. Out there on the street, you deal with that. As far as our customers go, I don't want to know anything about them. I don't need to see them. I don't want to hear from them. I want no interaction with them whatsoever. This operation is you and me, and I'm the silent partner. You got any issues with that?" Jesse: "Whatever, man." Walter: "No matter what happens, no more bloodshed. No violence." ―Walter talking to Jesse about their operation.[src] "I don't know. How about Taco Cabeza? Half the deals I've ever done went down at Taco Cabeza. Nice and public. Open 24 hours. Nobody ever gets shot at Taco Cabeza. Hell, why not the mall? You know, wait at the Gap. "Hey! It's time for the meet!" You know, I'll put down the flat-front khakis, head on over, grab an Orange Julius. Skip the part where psycho lunatic Tuco, you know, comes and steals my drugs and leaves me bleeding to death." ―Jesse suggesting a location to sell methamphetamine.[src] Jesse: "Four pounds. Four pounds – like two pounds wasn't bad enough. We're talking two – three-hundred boxes of sinus pills. There ain't that many smurfs in the world." Walter: "We're not going to need pseudoephedrine. We're going to make phenylacetone in a tube furnace, then we're going to use reductive amination to yield methamphetamine. Four pounds." Jesse: "So no pseudo?" Walter: "No pseudo." Jesse: "So you do have a plan! Yeah Mr. White! Yeah science!" ―Jesse and Walt discuss the new chemical process to yield four pounds of meth.[src] Jesse: "Alright, fine, facts in. Fact A: my phone rang like eight times last night. Dead air, hang-ups everytime. Second fact? Like three in the morning, I saw that black Caddy of his cruising my neighborhood. No headlights." Walter: "No, if he wanted to kill us, he would have done it at the junkyard." Jesse: "What is that? Conjecture? Are you basing that on that he's got a normal, healthy brain or something? Did you not see him beat a dude to death for like nothing? And that way, that way he just kept staring at us. Saying, "You're done." You're done?! You wanna know what that means? I will tell you what that means! That means exactly how it sounds, yo! Alright, we are witnesses, we are loose ends! Right now, Tuco's thinking, "Yeah, hey, they cook good meth, but can I trust them?" What happens when he decides "no"?" ―Jesse and Walt discuss Tuco's motives for killing them.[src] Jesse: "So, you plan to, uh, ice Gonzo, like...future tense?" Tuco: "What?" Walter: "You're saying, Tuco, you're saying Gonzo is currently operating as a police informant as far as you know? I'm very sorry to hear that. That's disappointing." Jesse: "Yeah. I would waste him too, yo." ―Jesse, Tuco, and Walt discuss Gonzo's disappearance.[src] Jesse: "Yeah, that's the thing, y'know? Your scumbag brother-in-law took my rainy day fund." Walter: "Your what? What is that?" Jesse: "My rainy day fund, $68,000, okay? Cue-ball son of a bitch laughed in my face. Now I got, like, 80 bucks to my name." ―Walt and Jesse's conversation about Jesse's money.[src] "What? Come on! Man, you're smart. You made poison out of beans, yo. Look, we got, we got an entire lab right here. Alright? How about you pick some of these chemicals and mix up some rocket fuel? That way you could just send up a signal flare. Or you make some kind of robot to get us help, or a homing device, or build a new battery, or... Wait. No. What if we just take some stuff off of the RV and build it into something completely different? You know, like a... Like a dune buggy. That way, we can just dune buggy or... What? Hey? What is it? What?" ―Jesse attempting to motivate Walt.[src] Jesse: "You either run from things or you face them, Mr. White." Walter: "Now what exactly does that mean?" Jesse: "I learned it in rehab. It's all about accepting who you really are. I accept who I am." Walter: "And who are you?" Jesse: "I'm the bad guy." ―Walt and Jesse's conversation.[src] Nurse: "Sir, if you'd like to smoke, you need to be another 20 feet from the door." Jesse: "So roll me further, bitch." ―Jesse being checked out of the hospital after his beating from Hank.[src] "I took this vo-tech class in high school, woodworking. I took a lot of vo-tech classes, because it was just big jerk-off, but this one time I had this teacher by the name of... Mr... Mr. Pike. I guess he was like a Marine or something before he got old. He was hard hearing. My project for his class was to make this wooden box. You know, like a small, just like a... like a box, you know, to put stuff in. So I wanted to get the thing done as fast as possible. I figured I could cut classes for the rest of the semester and he couldn't flunk me as long as I, you know, made the thing. So I finished it in a couple days. And it looked pretty lame, but it worked. You know, for putting in or whatnot. So when I showed it to Mr. Pike for my grade, he looked at it and said: "Is that the best you can do?" At first I thought to myself "Hell yeah, bitch. Now give me a D and shut up so I can go blaze one with my boys." I don't know. Maybe it was the way he said it, but... it was like he wasn't exactly saying it sucked. He was just asking me honestly, "Is that all you got?" And for some reason, I thought to myself: "Yeah, man, I can do better." So I started from scratch. I made another, then another. And by the end of the semester, by like box number five, I had built this thing. You should have seen it. It was insane. I mean, I built it out of Peruvian walnut with inlaid zebra-wood. It was fitted with pegas, no screws. I sanded it for days, until it was smooth as glass. Then I rubbed all the wood with tung oil so it was rich and dark. It even smelled good. You know, you put nose in it and breathed in, it was... it was perfect." ―Jesse speaking to the group leader.[src] Walter: "You understand this: you are turning down one and a half million dollars." Jesse: "I am not turning down the money! I'm turning down you! You get it?! I want nothing to do with you! Ever since I met you, everything I ever cared about is gone! Ruined, turned to shit, dead, ever since I hooked up with the great Heisenberg! I have never been more alone! I have NOTHING! NO ONE! ALRIGHT, IT'S ALL GONE, GET IT? No, no, no, why...why would you get it? What do you even care, as long as you get what you want, right? You don't give a shit about me! You said I was no good. I'm nothing! Why would you want me, huh? You said my meth is inferior, right? Right? Hey! You said my cook was GARBAGE! Hey, screw you, man! Screw you!" Walter: "Your meth is good, Jesse. As good as mine." ―Jesse, in his hospital bed, upsetly yells at Walt.[src] "What happens now? I’ll tell you what happens now. Your scumbag brother-in-law is finished. Done. You understand? I will own him when this is over. Every cent he earns, every cent his wife earns is mine. Any place he goes, anywhere he turns, I’m gonna be there grabbing my share. He’ll be scrubbing toilets in Tijuana for pennies and I’ll be standing over him to get my cut. He’ll see me when he wakes up in the morning and when he crawls to sleep in whatever rat hole is left for him after I shred his house down. I will haunt his crusty ass forever until the day he sticks a gun up his mouth and pulls the trigger just to get me out of his head. That’s what happens next." ―Jesse to Walt about Hank[src] "What good is being an outlaw when you have responsibilities?" ―Jesse to Skinny Pete and Badger[src] Jesse: "Dude, you scared the shit out of me! When you say it's contamination, I mean... I'm thinking like an Ebola leak or something." Walter: "Ebola." Jesse: "Yeah, it's a disease on The Discovery Channel where all your intestines sort of just slip out of your butt." Walter: "Thank you. I know what Ebola is. Now, tell me. What would a West African virus be doing in our lab?" Jesse: "So you're chasing around a fly and in your world, I'm the idiot." ―Jesse and Walter about the fly contamination.[src] ""Clear the contaminant?!" We're making meth here, alright? Not space shuttles!" ―Jesse to Walt over his use of the word "contaminant".[src] "Yo, Gatorade me, bitch." ―Jesse cleaning the Superlab.[src] "Look, I like making cherry product, but let’s keep it real, alright? We make poison for people who don’t care. We probably have the most unpicky customers in the world." ―Jesse talking to Walt[src] Group Leader: "We're not here to sit in judgment." Jesse: "Why not? Why not? Maybe-- Maybe she's right. You know, maybe I should have put it in the paper. Maybe I should have done something different. The thing is, if you just do stuff and nothing happens what's it all mean? What's the point? All right, this whole thing is about self-acceptance. Kicking the hell out of yourself doesn't give meaning to anything. So I should stop judging - and accept?" Group Leader: "It's a start." Jesse: "So, no matter what I do, hooray for me because I'm a great guy? It's all good? No matter how many dogs I kill, I just what, do an inventory and accept? I mean, you back your truck over your own kid and you, like, accept? What a load of crap! Hey, Jesse, I know you're in pain. No, y-you know what? Why I'm here in the first place? Is to sell you meth. You're nothing to me but customers! I made you my bitch! You okay with that? Huh? You accept???" ―Jesse denounces himself to the therapy group[src] "I'm the guy your boss brought here to show you how it's done. And if this is how you run your lab, no wonder. You are lucky he hasn't fired your ass. Now, if you don't want that to happen, I suggest you stop whining like a little bitch and do what I say." ―Jesse confronting Benicio Fuentes[src] Jesse: "What am I doing here?" Gus: "I know you have concerns. What happened yesterday to my man at the farm, it was a terrible thing." Jesse: "Oh, the dude getting his head blown off? Yeah." Gus: "I have invited you into my home, prepared food, so we could sit and talk. Discuss what's going on in this business. Our business. Like men. And I will explain everything that's happening. I will answer your questions. But first, I need you to answer one question for me: can you cook Walter's formula?" Jesse: "What?" Gus: "Walter's formula. Can you produce this product without any help alone?" Jesse: "No. Why? You asking me if I can cook Mr. White's crystal without him? Me? The junkie loser you were about to waste and dump in the desert a month ago? This your plan, huh? Invite me to your house and make whatever the fuck this is? Be my buddy and make me feel important? Then get me to keep cooking for you after you kill Mr. White? You wanna talk like men? Let's talk like men: you kill Mr. White, you're gonna have to kill me, too!" Gus: "That is not what I asked you. You are here because circumstances with the Cartel are untenable and I need your help. I need you to help prevent an all-out war. Now, if you would answer the question." ―Jesse and Gus' conversation.[src] "The Cartel has been messing with Gus' operation, like jacking trucks to like send a message. And yesterday? That dude we brought to the lab? They shot him right in front of me! Just blew his head open! Some sniper nailed him from like a mile away. Anyway, they've been holding off but from between Cartel taking potshots and your brother-in-law trying to throw a net over the whole deal, it's like what you call a rock and a hard place situation. So Gus is gonna cave. So the Cartel wants half of Gus' entire operation and they want your formula. And he's gonna give it to them. Well, I, I gotta give it to them. I mean, I'm supposed to go to Mexico and teach a bunch of Cartel chemists how to cook a batch of blue. Y'know, Gus doesn't trust you so I gotta go! I mean, you're the chemist, man, not me. I mean, let's say I go down and go over there to the jungle or whatever and say they got actual chemists, I mean Cartel chemists, asking me chemistry stuff that I don't know how to answer because I'm not you. And what if all the equipment is in Mexican instead of English? Ugh, I dunno, I dunno, if I mess this up, I am dead. All of us! Mr. White, look, I need your help. OK, maybe you could, uh, could like coach me or something or you could give me some notes. Mr. White?" ―Jesse talking with Walt about Gus.[src] Walt: "Jesse, why? Why, in God's name, would I poison a child?" Jesse: "To get back at me! Because I'm helping Gus and this is your way of ripping my heart out before you're dead and gone! Just admit it! Admit what you did! ADMIT IT!" Walt: "I DID NOT DO THIS!" Jesse: "SHUT UP! STOP LYING!" Walt: "I'm not, I'm not lying, Jesse, listen to me, listen to me, what would I have to gain, what possible...possible...who...who would...Oh my God..." Jesse: "Hey. Stop laughing. STOP LAUGHING!" Walt: "I have been waiting...I've been waiting all day, waiting for Gus to send one of his men to kill me, and it's you. Who do you know who's OK with using children, Jesse, who do you know? Who's allowed children to be murdered, hm? Gus! He has been ten steps ahead of me at every turn and now the one thing that he needed to finally get rid of me is your consent, and boy he's got that now, he's got it. And not only does he have that, but he manipulated you into pulling the trigger for him." Jesse: "But only you and I knew about the ricin!" Walt: "No! You don't even believe that. Gus has cameras everywhere, please. Listen to yourself. No, he's known everything all along. Where were you today? In the lab? And you don't think it's possible that Tyrus lifted the cigarette out of your locker? C'mon! Don't you see? You are the last piece of the puzzle. You are everything that he's wanted. You're his cook now. You're the cook and you have proven you can run a lab without me, and now that cook has reason to kill me. Think about it! It's brilliant! So go ahead, if you think that I am capable of doing this, then go...put a bullet in my head and kill me right now." ―Walt and Jesse's confrontation.[src] "Yeah, bitch! Magnets, oh!" ―Jesse after his magnet plan is successful.[src] Walt: "Jesse, you asked me if I was in the meth business or the money business. Neither. I'm in the empire business." Jesse: "I don't know, Mr. White, is a meth empire really something to be that proud of?" ―Jesse and Walt's conversation over whether Walt was in the meth business or the money business.[src] "I uh... I eat a lot of frozen stuff... It's usually pretty bad, I mean the pictures are always so awesome, you know? It's like "hell yeah, I'm starved for this lasagna!" and then you nuke it and the cheese gets all scabby on top and it's like... it's like you're eating a scab... I mean, seriously, what's that about? It's like "Yo! What ever happened to truth in advertising?" You know?" ―Jesse attempting to lighten the mood in an awkward dinner.[src] Jesse: "Would you just, for once, stop working me?" Walter: "What are you talking about?" Jesse: "Can you just, uh, stop working me for, like, ten seconds straight? Stop jerking me around?" Walter: "Jesse, I am not working you." Jesse: "Yes. Yes, you are. All right? Just drop the whole concerned dad thing and tell me the truth. I mean, you're– you're acting like me leaving town is– is all about me and turning over a new leaf, but it's really– it's really about you. I mean, you need me gone, 'cause your dickhead brother-in-law is never gonna let up. Just say so. Just ask me for a favor. Just tell me you don't give a shit about me, and it's either this– it's either this or you'll kill me the same way you killed Mike. I mean, isn't that what this is all about? Huh? Us meeting way the hell out here? In case I say no? Come on. Just tell me you need this." ―Jesse talking to Walt.[src] Saul: "He a no-show? Why didn't you call? Why didn't you... [Jesse punches Saul in the face] Stop! [Jesse keeps hitting him] Code Red! Huell! Get in here! [Saul tries to reach for a gun hidden in a drawer, but Jesse grabs it first. Huell and Francesca enter the room, Jesse points the gun at them]" Jesse: "Back off! You, stay where you are." Saul: "What? I don't know what happened here. What did I do?" Jesse: "You stole it off of me. You and him– you took it right out of my pocket, didn't you?" Saul: "Whoa, whoa, whoa! Calm down. Yes. Okay. I had Huell lift your dope. I told you I couldn't risk the guy not taking you." Jesse: "No! Before! The cigarette! You stole the cigarette." Saul: "What?" Jesse: "The ricin cigarette! You had him steal it off of me! And all for that asshole Mr. White! He poisoned Brock! He poisoned Brock, and you– you helped him!" Saul: "Okay, Jesse. Calm down." Jesse: "Say it again! Tell me one more time to calm down! Come on!" Saul: "I'm sorry. Yes. Okay. I had Huell lift your cigarette, but Walt made me! He told me he was helping you, he was saving you. I never would've agreed to it if I'd known what he was gonna do. Jesse, you gotta believe me. I didn't want any of this!" ―Jesse confronting Saul.[src] "Look– look, you two guys are just… guys, okay? Mr. White... he's the devil. You know, he is– he is smarter than you, he is luckier than you. Whatever–Whatever you think is supposed to happen– I’m telling you, the exact reverse opposite of that is gonna happen, okay?" ―Jesse talking to Hank and Gomez.[src] "Yo, I remember this place. This is the very first place we cooked, like, ever. It is, isn't it?" ―Jesse reminding Walt of the first place they cooked meth, moments before his arrest by Hank and Gomez.[src] "Just kill me now and get it over with, because there's no way I'm doing one more cook for you psycho fucks!" ―Jesse confronting Jack Welker and his men after a failed attempt to escape the compound.[src] Jesse: "Say the words. Say you want this! Nothing happens until I hear you say it!" Walter: "I want this." Jesse: "Then do it yourself." ―Jesse and Walt's last conversation[src] El Camino Jesse: "Start over, start fresh, put things right." Mike: "No. Sorry kid, that's the one thing you can never do." ―Mike's conversation with Jesse during his flashback[src] "Hey, and uh... it's probably too late to say this. I don't know if it'll mean much to you... But you did your best. And whatever happened with me, it's on me. Okay? Nobody else." ―Jesse's last words to his parents. Todd: "I’ll take that, Jesse. Jesse, I’ll take that. On the way home, I was going to get us some pizza. A couple large pies. Maybe a six-pack of beer? Some ice cold beer. Does that sound good? Because you earned it today. You definitely did. What kind of pizza do you like, Jesse? Jesse, what kind of pizza?" Jesse: "Pepperoni." Todd: "Pepperoni. Sure. Classic. I like that too." ―Todd bribes Jesse into not shooting him[src] Todd: "How do you like my place?" Jesse: "Uh, yeah, it’s nice. Kind of pastel, but in a good way." Todd: "Yeah, right? I was thinking of Easter eggs, but lately, I’m thinking I might like to try some new paint. This stuff is starting to feel pretty tired." Jesse: "Okay. Sure, so, you… Is that why I’m here? You want me to help you paint?" Todd: "Maybe, yeah. Um, if we have some time left over. But, first, uh…" Jesse: "Oh, shit! Jesus!" ―Jesse and Todd in Todd's Apartment[src] "All right. Sean, Kyle, Colin. I know where you live. You tell the cops about me, and I am coming for every goddamn one of you. You understand?" ―Jesse to Sean, Kyle and Colin threatening them to not tell the police about him. "Look, these people, they have kept me in a concrete hole. Look, I don't even know what month it is. They made me watch when they... when they shot someone..." ―Jesse discussing Jack and his gang with Ed Galbraith "I was thinking about that thing you said about the universe. Going where the universe takes you? Right on. I think it's a cool philosophy." ―Jesse's last line, to Jane in a flashback Appearances Breaking Bad Episodes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Season 1 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Season 2 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Season 3 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Season 4 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Season 5A ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Season 5B ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Better Call Saul Episodes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Season 1 Season 2 Season 3 Season 4 Season 5 Season 6 ✔ ✔ Trivia Jesse in the lab, displaying the injuries he sustained from Hank Jesse is one of only five characters that appears in Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul and El Camino, the others being Walter White, Mike Ehrmantraut, Ed Galbraith, and Austin Ramey. Huell Babineaux appears in countdown videos prior to the release of El Camino, but does not appear in the film itself. Jimmy McGill/Saul Goodman and Lydia Rodarte-Quayle are indirectly mentioned in El Camino, but do not appear in the film itself. Jesse was originally scheduled to be killed at the end of Season 1, in place of No-Doze. Before then however, Vince Gilligan recognized Aaron Paul's excellent potential and acting, and decided to keep him on. Jesse's character and Paul's performance have received acclaim from critics and fans. Critics especially praised Jesse's character development from an unsympathetic drug dealer to the moral compass of the show as he becomes increasingly guilty and remorseful for his and Walt's actions while involved in the drug trade. For his portrayal, Paul won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 2010, 2012, and 2014, making him the first actor to win the category three times since its separation into drama and comedy. Regarding Jesse's new life in Haines, Alaska, Gilligan speculated that Jesse "would enjoy the brewery and maybe get a job with the ski manufacturer ... the very nice people of Alaska would welcome him into the community." Paul believed that Jesse is "going to keep his nose clean. He has quite a bit of cash on hand. And he’s going to live a very modest lifestyle. He’s moving to a very small place in Alaska, so he doesn’t need all that much money. He knows how to work with his hands, and so he just needs to refresh those skills and become the artist that he was always meant to be." Jesse is the only main character in Season 1 of Breaking Bad that isn't related to Walt. Jesse and Walt are the only main characters to kill another main character, with Walt killing Mike Ehrmantraut and Jesse killing Todd Alquist. In Breaking Bad, Jesse meets every main character except for Walter White Jr. In Better Call Saul, Jesse meets two main characters, Jimmy McGill and Kim Wexler. In the original Pilot script, the character that would become Jesse was named "Marion Alan Dupree." Jesse appears to be a fan of Jethro Tull. ("Cancer Man") Jesse is one of two characters (along with Walter White) to appear in every episode. However he has no lines in the episode "Buried", which makes Bryan Cranston (Walter White) and Anna Gunn (Skyler White) the only actors to have lines in every episode of the series. Anna Gunn does not appear in the episode "Fly", though a recording of her voice from a previous episode is played. Jesse is the last person alive who knows how to cook Walt's signature Blue Sky meth formula, and one of the few surviving members of Walt's Drug Empire. The statues of Jesse Pinkman and Walter White. In 2022, statues of Jesse Pinkman and Walter White were built and unveiled in Albuquerque. Jesse has owned several cars and a motorbike including: 1982 Chevrolet Monte Carlo ("Pilot" - "Grilled") Kawasaki ("Pilot" - "Down") 1986 Toyota Tercel ("Breakage" - "Buried") 1981 Chevrolet El Camino ("Felina" - "El Camino") 1986 Pontiac Fiero ("El Camino") 1988 Toyota Land Cruiser ("El Camino") Jesse has several tattoos including: A tribal mark marking on his right hand A dragon on his chest A tiki skull on his back, between his shoulder blade The firearms used by Jesse are: A Ruger SP-101 bought to protect himself from Tuco Salamanca. Taken by Mike Ehrmantraut following the death of Jane Margolis. ("Seven Thirty-Seven" - "ABQ") A Beretta 84F bought to kill the Rival Dealers and used to kill Gale Boetticher. Melted in hydrofluoric acid with Victor's body. ("Half Measures" - "Box Cutter") A Taurus Model 85 briefly loaned to Jesse by Mike Ehrmantraut. ("Problem Dog") A Beretta 92FS Inox taken from the Cartel and used to kill Joaquin Salamanca. ("Salud") An AMT Backup .380ACP kept for protection against Walter White. ("Gliding Over All") A Kimber Ultra Raptor II once belonging to Kenny which Jesse briefly considered killing Walter White with. ("Felina") A Ruger P95 taken from Todd Alquist's El Camino and used until it was stolen by Neil Kandy and Casey. ("El Camino") The rival dealers that killed Tomas Cantillo also used a Ruger P95. A Colt Woodsman once belonging to Jesse's grandfather taken from his parents' safe to confront Neil and Casey, used in a failed attempt to kill Casey. ("El Camino") A Smith & Wesson Safety Hammerless taken from his parents' safe to kill Neil. ("El Camino") A Kimber Ultra Raptor II taken from Neil Kandy, used to kill kill Casey. ("El Camino") The last three guns are the ones currently in Jesse's possession, none of them actually belong to him. In "El Camino", it's left unclear what (if any) charges Jesse actually has against him. SAC Ramey only identifies Jesse as a person of interest in the gang massacre who possibly has information regarding other cases the DEA is investigating. Being a person of interest suggests that the authorities may have only been seeking Jesse for information, not arrest, or that Ramey just wasn't admitting to wanting Jesse as more than someone with potential information particularly in light of the fact that Jesse's captivity and rescue by Walt appears to be public knowledge. In "Breaking Bad", Francesca mentioned to Saul that the DEA were still looking for Saul and Jesse, as they are the only two left with information on Walter's drug empire. This indicates that Ramey was omitting the fact that Jesse was wanted for more than being a person of interest in the massacre at Jack's compound, and that he was wanted for arrest for his role in Walt's empire. Saul's 86-year imprisonment in "Saul Gone" left Jesse as the only former affiliate to Walt's empire to successfully escape justice. He is also the only one out of Ed Galbraith's known clients to successfully adapt to his new life and not squander it like Jimmy and Walt who were caught or came back for revenge and died respectively. It is possible that the DEA has Jesse's confession tape, and if so, he could most likely be charged for the things he confessed to doing. In the minisode "TwaüghtHammër", a very short clip of a young Jesse playing the drums is shown. It was revealed in the Breaking Bad Insider Podcast for "Phoenix" that the actor who played this young version of Jesse is John Shiban's son, Jerry Shiban. Jesse is 5' 7" according to his mugshot. Gus's doctor says that Jesse has A- blood type, is 25 years old, 70 kg (154 lbs), and is allergic to erythromycin (a common antibiotic) ("Crawl Space"). Jesse's hair length changes over the course of the series several times. During his imprisonment by Jack Welker's Gang, he gains longer hair and a beard which are both matted. ("Felina") Following his rescue, Jesse shaves his head and beard to stubble. ("El Camino") Due to the torture he suffers at the hands of Jack's gang, Jesse is left with several facial scars, at least two on the top of his head which are visible after he shaves it and some on his back as well. ("Felina", "El Camino") Jesse's blood type is A-negative, meaning he can donate to A-positive, A-negative, AB-positive and AB-negative, and he can receive blood from A-negative and O-negative. ("Crawl Space") Jesse weighs 70 kilograms (154 pounds) and he is 180 centimeters (5'11") tall. ("Crawl Space") Jesse is allergic to erythromycin and needs to be treated with cefazolin if he has a reaction .("Crawl Space") In a deleted scene for "El Camino", it is revealed that Jesse was actually wounded in the firefight at Kandy Welding Co., something that was not seen in the actual movie itself. After Jesse pays him, Ed promises to look at Jesse's wound for him. Vince Gilligan explained the scene was cut because it prolonged the film's third act, but his one regret was losing one more scene featuring the late Robert Forster as Ed.[1] In Better Call Saul's "Breaking Bad", Jesse reveals that he and other Albuquerque street-level dealers have never heard of Lalo Salamanca. It is also revealed by Francesca that Skinny Pete and Badger's plan to distract law enforcement by planting Jesse's car at the Mexican border worked. As a result, the authorities think that Jesse has fled to Mexico. In "Waterworks", it's revealed that Jesse is aware of Kim Wexler due to her representing Combo. Jesse is shown playing Sonic & SEGA All-Stars Racing and Sonic the Hedgehog 2006 in "Bullet Points" and "Crawl Space" respectively. Coincidentally, both Jesse and Sonic share the same voice actor in French, Alexandre Gillet. In the video game The Henry Stickmin Collection, there is a character with a pink hat named Pinkman with a biography of "He's not affiliated with any chemistry teachers or cartels. He just has a pink hat." Jesse is the last character to kill somebody in the Breaking Bad universe. Jesse is the only character whose new life is not shown after "disappearing". Videos Kim And Jesse Meet - Waterworks - Better Call SaulWaterworksBreaking Bad Pilot - You wanna cook crystal meth?PilotBreaking Bad Cancer ManCancer ManBreaking Bad One Minute - Hank beats up JesseOne MinuteBreaking Bad One Minute - Jesse's SpeechOne MinuteBreaking Bad Live Free Or Die - What About a Magnet?Live Free Or DieBreaking Bad Best Scenes - I'm In The Empire Business (Season 5 Episode 6 Buyout)BuyoutWalter and Jesse Desert Scene - Breaking Bad S05E11 - Full HDConfessionsBreaking Bad Confessions - Jesse finds out about the ricin cigaretteConfessionsBreaking Bad Confessions - Jesse beats up SaulConfessionsBreaking Bad Felina - Jesse's wood boxFelinaWalt and Jesse's Reunion - Breaking BadFelina Notes ↑ Vince Gilligan interview. 